_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/branching.md, before:

---
nav_title: Branching
platform: Canvas
subplatform: Create a Canvas
page_order: 1
description: "This reference article covers what branching is, and how it can be useful in your Canvases."
---

# Branching

## Create a Branch

You can harness the power of Braze’s action based delivery and powerful
realtime segmentation to deliver personalized experiences for your users.

To create a branch, click on the blue circle at the bottom of a Step.
Then click on one of the shadowed icons to create a new step.

![Canvas Create Branch 1][31]

Create another step, branching from the first:

![Canvas Create Branch 2][32]

You can set up filters to determine how users should flow to subsequent
steps.

![Canvas Create Branch 3][33]

Or you can have users flow between branches based upon actions that they
take.

![Canvas Create Branch 4][34]

## Warnings

### Overlapping Filters

When setting up your Canvas, you should ensure that the Filters that you
use to split users down different branches do not overlap.
If a user can match multiple steps, Braze will pick a branch to send
them down. For example:

![Canvas Create Branch 5][35]

If a user first made a purchase 7 days ago, they will be randomly slotted
into one of the branches above.


[31]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_1.png %}
[32]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_2.png %}
[33]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_3.png %}
[34]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_4.png %}
[35]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_5.png %}

Commit message:

Update Campaign and Canvas sections

_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/branching.md, after:

---
nav_title: Branching
platform: Canvas
subplatform: Create a Canvas
page_order: 1

page_type: reference
description: "This reference article covers what branching is, and how it can be useful in your Canvases."
tool: Canvas
---

# Branching

> This reference article covers what branching is, and how it can be useful in your Canvases.

## Create a Branch

You can harness the power of Braze’s action based delivery and powerful
realtime segmentation to deliver personalized experiences for your users.

To create a branch, click on the blue circle at the bottom of a Step.
Then click on one of the shadowed icons to create a new step.

![Canvas Create Branch 1][31]

Create another step, branching from the first:

![Canvas Create Branch 2][32]

You can set up filters to determine how users should flow to subsequent
steps.

![Canvas Create Branch 3][33]

Or you can have users flow between branches based upon actions that they
take.

![Canvas Create Branch 4][34]

## Warnings

### Overlapping Filters

When setting up your Canvas, you should ensure that the Filters that you
use to split users down different branches do not overlap.
If a user can match multiple steps, Braze will pick a branch to send
them down. For example:

![Canvas Create Branch 5][35]

If a user first made a purchase 7 days ago, they will be randomly slotted
into one of the branches above.


[31]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_1.png %}
[32]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_2.png %}
[33]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_3.png %}
[34]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_4.png %}
[35]:{% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Canvas_Branch_5.png %}
