_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/canvas_persistent_entry_properties.md, before:

---
nav_title: Persistent Entry Properties
title: Persistent Entry Properties
alias: "/persistent_entry/"

page_type: reference
description: "This reference article describes how to use persistent entry properties in your Canvas to send more curated messages, and create a highly refined end-user experience."
tool: Canvas
---

<br>
{% alert note %}
This feature is currently in Beta. Please reach out to your Braze account manager for more information.
{% endalert %}

# Canvas Persistent Entry Properties

When a Canvas is triggered by a custom event, purchase, or an API call, customers are now able to use metadata from the API call, custom event, or purchase event for personalization in each step of the Canvas. __Prior to this feature, the entry properties could only be used in the first step of Canvas__. The ability to use entry properties throughout a Canvas journey allows customers to send more curated messages and create a highly refined end-user experience.

## Using Entry Properties

Entry properties can be used in Action-based and API-Triggered Canvases. These entry properties are defined when a Canvas is triggered by a custom event, purchase, or API call. Check out our documentation to learn more about the [Canvas Entry Properties Object]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/canvas_entry_properties_object/), [Event Properties Object]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/event_object/), and [Purchase Object]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/purchase_object/#purchase-product_id).

Properties passed in from these objects can be referenced by using the `canvas_entry_properties` Liquid tag.

- For example, a request with `\"canvas_entry_properties\" : {\"product_name\" : \"shoes\", \"product_price\" : 79.99}` could add the word "shoes" to a message by adding the Liquid {% raw %}`{{canvas_entry_properties.${product_name}}}`{% endraw %}.

When a Canvas includes a message with the `canvas_entry_properties` Liquid tag, the values associated with those properties will be saved for the duration of a user’s journey in the Canvas and deleted once the user exits the Canvas.

## Action-Based Canvas Step

When `canvas_entry_properties` and `event_properties` are both referenced in an action-based step of an Action-based or API-triggered Canvas:
- `canvas_entry_properties` will template with properties associated with the custom event, purchase, or API call that triggered the Canvas.
- `event_properties` will template with properties associated with the custom event or purchase that triggered the step.

## Updating Canvas to use Entry Properties

If an active Canvas that previously did not include any messages that use `canvas_entry_properties` is edited to include `canvas_entry_properties`, the value corresponding to that property will not be available for users who entered the Canvas before `canvas_entry_properties` was added to the Canvas. The values will only be saved for users that enter the Canvas after the change is made.

For example: If you initially launched a Canvas that did not use any entry properties on November 3, then added a new property `product_name` to the Canvas on November 11, values for `product_name` would only be saved for users that entered the Canvas on November 11 onward.

In the case that a Canvas entry property is null or blank, you can abort messages using conditionals. The following code snippet is an example of how you may use Liquid to abort a message.
{%raw%}
```
{% if canvas_entry_properties.${product_name} == blank %}
{% abort_message() %}
{% endif %}
```
{%endraw%}

To read more about aborting messages with Liquid, check out our [Liquid documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/aborting_messages/#aborting-messages).

## Global Canvas Entry Properties

With `canvas_entry_properties`, you can set global properties that apply to all users or user-specific properties that only apply to the specified user. The user-specific property will supersede the global property for that user.

Example API request using global Canvas entry properties:
```
url -X POST \
-H 'Content-Type:application/json' \
-d '{
      "api_key": "a valid rest api key",
      "canvas_id": "the ID of your canvas",
         "canvas_entry_properties": {
            "food_allergies": “none”
          },
      "recipients": [
        {
          "external_user_id": Customer_123,
          "canvas_entry_properties": {
            "food_allergies": “dairy”
          }
        }
      ]
    }' \
```
 
In the above request, the global value for “food allergies” is “none”. For Customer_123, the value is “dairy”. Messages in this Canvas containing the Liquid snippet {%raw%}`{{canvas_entry_properties.${food_allergies}}}`{%endraw%} will template with “dairy” for Customer_123 and “none” for everyone else. 

## Use Cases

If you have a Canvas that is triggered when a user browses an item in your e-commerce site but does not add it to their cart, the first step of the Canvas might be a push notification asking if they are interested in purchasing the item. You could reference the product name by using {% raw %}`{{canvas_entry_properties.$(product_name)}}`{% endraw %}

![Image][1]{: style="border:0;margin-left:15px;"}

The second step may send another push notification prompting the user to checkout if they added the item to their cart but have not purchased it yet. You can continue to reference the `product_name` entry property by using {% raw %}`{{canvas_entry_properties.$(product_name)}}`{% endraw %}.

![Image][2]{: style="border:0;margin-left:15px;"}

[1]:{% image_buster /assets/img/persistent_entry_properties/PEP1.png %}
[2]:{% image_buster /assets/img/persistent_entry_properties/PEP12.png %}

Commit message:

Update canvas_entry_properties edge case

_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/canvas_persistent_entry_properties.md, after:

---
nav_title: Persistent Entry Properties
title: Persistent Entry Properties
alias: "/persistent_entry/"

page_type: reference
description: "This reference article describes how to use persistent entry properties in your Canvas to send more curated messages, and create a highly refined end-user experience."
tool: Canvas
---

<br>
{% alert note %}
This feature is currently in Beta. Please reach out to your Braze account manager for more information.
{% endalert %}

# Canvas Persistent Entry Properties

When a Canvas is triggered by a custom event, purchase, or an API call, customers are now able to use metadata from the API call, custom event, or purchase event for personalization in each step of the Canvas. __Prior to this feature, the entry properties could only be used in the first step of Canvas__. The ability to use entry properties throughout a Canvas journey allows customers to send more curated messages and create a highly refined end-user experience.

## Using Entry Properties

Entry properties can be used in Action-based and API-Triggered Canvases. These entry properties are defined when a Canvas is triggered by a custom event, purchase, or API call. Check out our documentation to learn more about the [Canvas Entry Properties Object]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/canvas_entry_properties_object/), [Event Properties Object]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/event_object/), and [Purchase Object]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/purchase_object/#purchase-product_id).

Properties passed in from these objects can be referenced by using the `canvas_entry_properties` Liquid tag.

- For example, a request with `\"canvas_entry_properties\" : {\"product_name\" : \"shoes\", \"product_price\" : 79.99}` could add the word "shoes" to a message by adding the Liquid {% raw %}`{{canvas_entry_properties.${product_name}}}`{% endraw %}.

When a Canvas includes a message with the `canvas_entry_properties` Liquid tag, the values associated with those properties will be saved for the duration of a user’s journey in the Canvas and deleted once the user exits the Canvas.

{% alert important %} If your Canvas includes a re-eligibility window that is less than the total duration of the Canvas and you are using `canvas_entry_properties` beyond the first step of your Canvas, only **Message Steps** are allowed. **Full Steps** are not permitted with these settings due to an [edge case]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/create_a_canvas/#important-edge-case). 
{% endalert %}

## Action-Based Canvas Step

When `canvas_entry_properties` and `event_properties` are both referenced in an action-based step of an Action-based or API-triggered Canvas:
- `canvas_entry_properties` will template with properties associated with the custom event, purchase, or API call that triggered the Canvas.
- `event_properties` will template with properties associated with the custom event or purchase that triggered the step.

## Updating Canvas to use Entry Properties

If an active Canvas that previously did not include any messages that use `canvas_entry_properties` is edited to include `canvas_entry_properties`, the value corresponding to that property will not be available for users who entered the Canvas before `canvas_entry_properties` was added to the Canvas. The values will only be saved for users that enter the Canvas after the change is made.

For example: If you initially launched a Canvas that did not use any entry properties on November 3, then added a new property `product_name` to the Canvas on November 11, values for `product_name` would only be saved for users that entered the Canvas on November 11 onward.

In the case that a Canvas entry property is null or blank, you can abort messages using conditionals. The following code snippet is an example of how you may use Liquid to abort a message.
{%raw%}
```
{% if canvas_entry_properties.${product_name} == blank %}
{% abort_message() %}
{% endif %}
```
{%endraw%}

To read more about aborting messages with Liquid, check out our [Liquid documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/aborting_messages/#aborting-messages).

## Global Canvas Entry Properties

With `canvas_entry_properties`, you can set global properties that apply to all users or user-specific properties that only apply to the specified user. The user-specific property will supersede the global property for that user.

Example API request using global Canvas entry properties:
```
url -X POST \
-H 'Content-Type:application/json' \
-d '{
      "api_key": "a valid rest api key",
      "canvas_id": "the ID of your canvas",
         "canvas_entry_properties": {
            "food_allergies": “none”
          },
      "recipients": [
        {
          "external_user_id": Customer_123,
          "canvas_entry_properties": {
            "food_allergies": “dairy”
          }
        }
      ]
    }' \
```
 
In the above request, the global value for “food allergies” is “none”. For Customer_123, the value is “dairy”. Messages in this Canvas containing the Liquid snippet {%raw%}`{{canvas_entry_properties.${food_allergies}}}`{%endraw%} will template with “dairy” for Customer_123 and “none” for everyone else. 

## Use Cases

If you have a Canvas that is triggered when a user browses an item in your e-commerce site but does not add it to their cart, the first step of the Canvas might be a push notification asking if they are interested in purchasing the item. You could reference the product name by using {% raw %}`{{canvas_entry_properties.$(product_name)}}`{% endraw %}

![Image][1]{: style="border:0;margin-left:15px;"}

The second step may send another push notification prompting the user to checkout if they added the item to their cart but have not purchased it yet. You can continue to reference the `product_name` entry property by using {% raw %}`{{canvas_entry_properties.$(product_name)}}`{% endraw %}.

![Image][2]{: style="border:0;margin-left:15px;"}

[1]:{% image_buster /assets/img/persistent_entry_properties/PEP1.png %}
[2]:{% image_buster /assets/img/persistent_entry_properties/PEP12.png %}
