_docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/overview.md, before:

---
nav_title: Overview
platform: iOS
page_order: 0
layout: featured

guide_top_header: "Integration Overview"
guide_top_text: "Installing the Braze iOS SDK will provide you with basic analytics functionality (session handling) as well as basic in-app messages. You must further customize your integration for additional channels and features. <br> <br> The Braze iOS SDK can be installed or updated using CocoaPods, Carthage, or a Manual integration."
description: "This landing page covers Braze SDK integration guides for CocoaPods, Swift Package Manager, Carthage, and more."

guide_featured_title: "Basic Integration Options"
guide_featured_list:
- name: CocoaPods
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/cocoapods/
  image: /assets/img/cocoapods.png
- name: Swift Package Manager (SPM)
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/swift_package_manager/
  image: /assets/img/swift.png
- name: Carthage
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/carthage_integration/
  image: /assets/img/carthage.jpeg
- name: Manual
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/manual_integration_options/
  fa_icon: fas fa-toolbox
- name: "Other SDK Customizations (Optional)"
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/other_sdk_customizations/
  fa_icon: fas fa-id-card-alt

---

<br>

{% alert important %}
The iOS SDK will add 1MB to 2MB to the app IPA file, in addition to App File, and 30MB for the Framework.
{% endalert %}

After you have integrated using one of the options above, as well as enabled other SDK Customizations (optional), move on to integrating, enabling, and customizing additional channels and features to fit the needs of your future campaigns.  

<br>

Commit message:

reorganize and create completing_integration

_docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/overview.md, after:

---
nav_title: Overview
platform: iOS
page_order: 0
layout: featured

guide_top_header: "Integration Overview"
guide_top_text: "Installing the Braze iOS SDK will provide you with basic analytics functionality (session handling) as well as basic in-app messages. You must further customize your integration for additional channels and features. <br> <br> The Braze iOS SDK can be installed or updated using CocoaPods, Carthage, Swift Package Manager, or a Manual integration."
description: "This landing page covers Braze SDK integration guides for CocoaPods, Swift Package Manager, Carthage, and more."

guide_featured_title: "Basic Integration Options"
guide_featured_list:
- name: CocoaPods
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/installation_methods/cocoapods/
  image: /assets/img/cocoapods.png
- name: Swift Package Manager (SPM)
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/installation_methods/swift_package_manager/
  image: /assets/img/swift.png
- name: Carthage
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/installation_methods/carthage_integration/
  image: /assets/img/carthage.jpeg
- name: Manual
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/installation_methods/manual_integration_options/
  fa_icon: fas fa-toolbox
- name: "Completing the Integration"
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/completing_integration/
  fa_icon: fas fa-flag-checkered
- name: "Other SDK Customizations (Optional)"
  link: /docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/other_sdk_customizations/
  fa_icon: fas fa-id-card-alt

---

<br>

{% alert important %}
The iOS SDK will add 1MB to 2MB to the app IPA file, in addition to App File, and 30MB for the Framework.
{% endalert %}

After you have integrated using one of the options above and followed the steps for [Completing the Integration]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/completing_integration/), as well as enabled other SDK Customizations (optional), move on to integrating, enabling, and customizing additional channels and features to fit the needs of your future campaigns.  

<br>
