_docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/analytics_glossary.md, before:

---
nav_title: Email Analytics Glossary
page_order: 20
layout: glossary_page
glossary_top_header: "Email Analytics Glossary"
glossary_top_text: "These are terms you'll find in the analytics section of your Email Campaign or Canvas, post-launch. Search for the metrics you need below. <br>  <br> This glossary does not necessarily include metrics you might see in Currents or in other downloaded reports outside of your Braze account."

description: "This glossary includes the terms you will find in the analytics section of your email campaign or canvas, post-launch. This glossary does not include Currents metrics."

tool:
  - Campaign
  - Canvas
  - Dashboard

channel:
  - email

glossaries:
  - name: Variation
    description: Variation of a campaign, differing as defined by the creator.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Emailable
    description: Users who have an email address on record and have explicitly opted in or subscribed.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Audience %"
    description: Percentage of users who received a particular variant.
    calculation: Number of Recipients in Variant / Unique Recipients
  - name: Unique Recipients
    description: Unique Daily Recipients. The number of users who received a particular message in a day. This number is received from Braze.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Sends or Messages Sent
    description: The total number of messages sent in an Email Campaign. This number is received from Braze.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Deliveries"
    description: The total number of messages (Sends) successfully sent to and received by emailable parties.
    calculation: Sends - Bounces
  - name: "Deliveries %"
    description: The total number of messages (Sends) successfully sent to and received by emailable parties.
    calculation: (Sends - Bounces) / (Sends)
  - name: Bounces
    description: The total number of messages that were unsuccessfully sent or designated as 'returned' or 'not received' from send services used or not received by the intended emailable users. This could occur because there is not a valid push token, the email addresses were incorrect or deactivated, or the user unsubscribed after the campaign was launched. <br><br> <b>Hard Bounces</b>&#58; A hard bounce is an email message that has been returned to the sender because the recipient's address is invalid. A hard bounce might occur because the domain name doesn't exist or because the recipient is unknown. If an email has received a hard bounce, we will stop any future requests to this email address. <br><br><b>Soft Bounces</b>&#58; A soft bounce is an email message that gets as far as the recipient's mail server but is bounced back undelivered before it gets to the recipient. A soft bounce might occur because the recipient's inbox is full, the server was down, or the message was too large for the receipient's inbox. If an email has received a soft bounce, we will usually retry within a 72 hour period, but the number of retry attempts varies from receiver to receiver. <br><br> You can also track hard and soft bounces in the <a href='/docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/message_activity_log_tab/#message-activity-log-tab'>Message Activity Log</a>. <br><br><i> An email bounce for customers using Sendgrid consists of hard bounces, spam, and emails sent to invalid addresses. </i>
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Bounces % or Bounce Rate"
    description: The percentage of messages that were unsuccessfully sent or designated as 'returned' or 'not received' from send services used or not received by the intended emailable users. This could occur because there is not a valid push token, the email addresses were incorrect or deactivated, or the user unsubscribed after the campaign was launched. <br> <i> An email bounce for customers using Sendgrid consists of hard bounces, spam (`spam_report_drops`), and emails sent to invalid addresses (`invalid_emails`). </i>
    calculation: Bounces / Sends
  - name: Spam
    description: The total number of emails delivered that were marked as "spam." Braze <a href='/docs/help/best_practices/email/#unsubscribed-email-addresses'>automatically unsubscribes</a> users that marked an email as spam, and those users won’t be targeted by future emails.
    calculation: (Marked as Spam) / (Sends)
  - name: "Spam % or Spam Rate"
    description: The percentage of emails delivered that were marked or otherwise designated as "spam." Braze <a href='/docs/help/best_practices/email/#unsubscribed-email-addresses'>automatically unsubscribes</a> users that marked an email as spam, and those users won’t be targeted by future emails.
    calculation: (Marked as Spam) / (Sends)
  - name: Unique Opens
    description: The total number of delivered emails that have been opened by a single user at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: (Unique Opens) / (Deliveries)
  - name: "Unique Opens % or Unique Open Rate"
    description: The percentage of delivered emails that have been opened by a single user at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: (Unique Opens) / (Deliveries)
  - name: Unique Clicks
    description: Distinct number of recipients who have clicked within a message at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Unique Clicks % or Click Rate"
    description: Distinct number of recipients who have clicked within a message at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: Unique Clicks / Deliveries
  - name: Unsubscribers or Unsub
    description: Number of messages resulting in an unsubscription. Unsubscriptions occur when a user clicks on the Braze unsubscribe link.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Unsubscribers % or Unsub Rate"
    description: Percentage of messages delivered which resulted in an unsubscription. Unsubscriptions occur when a user clicks on the Braze unsubscribe link.
    calculation: Unsubscribes / Deliveries
  - name: Revenue
    description: The total revenue in dollars from campaign recipients within the set <a href='/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/testing_and_more/conversion_events/#primary-conversion-event'>primary conversion window</a>.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Primary Conversions (A) or Primary Conversion Event
    description: The number of times a defined event occurred after interacting with or viewing a received message from a Braze campaign. This defined event is determined by the marketer when building the campaign.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Primary Conversions (A) or Primary Conversion Event
    description: The percentage of times a defined event occurred after interacting with or viewing a received message from a Braze campaign. This defined event is determined by the marketer when building the campaign.
    calculation: Primary Conversions / Unique Recipients
  - name: Confidence
    description: The percentage of confidence that a certain variant of a message is outperforming the control group.

---

Commit message:

Add new conversion attributes to reporting

_docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/analytics_glossary.md, after:

---
nav_title: Email Analytics Glossary
page_order: 20
layout: glossary_page
glossary_top_header: "Email Analytics Glossary"
glossary_top_text: "These are terms you'll find in the analytics section of your Email Campaign or Canvas, post-launch. Search for the metrics you need below. <br>  <br> This glossary does not necessarily include metrics you might see in Currents or in other downloaded reports outside of your Braze account."

description: "This glossary includes the terms you will find in the analytics section of your email campaign or canvas, post-launch. This glossary does not include Currents metrics."

tool:
  - Campaign
  - Canvas
  - Dashboard

channel:
  - email

glossaries:
  - name: Variation
    description: Variation of a campaign, differing as defined by the creator.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Emailable
    description: Users who have an email address on record and have explicitly opted in or subscribed.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Audience %"
    description: Percentage of users who received a particular variant.
    calculation: Number of Recipients in Variant / Unique Recipients
  - name: Unique Recipients
    description: Unique Daily Recipients. The number of users who received a particular message in a day. This number is received from Braze.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Sends or Messages Sent
    description: The total number of messages sent in an Email Campaign. This number is received from Braze.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Deliveries"
    description: The total number of messages (Sends) successfully sent to and received by emailable parties.
    calculation: Sends - Bounces
  - name: "Deliveries %"
    description: The total number of messages (Sends) successfully sent to and received by emailable parties.
    calculation: (Sends - Bounces) / (Sends)
  - name: Bounces
    description: The total number of messages that were unsuccessfully sent or designated as 'returned' or 'not received' from send services used or not received by the intended emailable users. This could occur because there is not a valid push token, the email addresses were incorrect or deactivated, or the user unsubscribed after the campaign was launched. <br><br> <b>Hard Bounces</b>&#58; A hard bounce is an email message that has been returned to the sender because the recipient's address is invalid. A hard bounce might occur because the domain name doesn't exist or because the recipient is unknown. If an email has received a hard bounce, we will stop any future requests to this email address. <br><br><b>Soft Bounces</b>&#58; A soft bounce is an email message that gets as far as the recipient's mail server but is bounced back undelivered before it gets to the recipient. A soft bounce might occur because the recipient's inbox is full, the server was down, or the message was too large for the receipient's inbox. If an email has received a soft bounce, we will usually retry within a 72 hour period, but the number of retry attempts varies from receiver to receiver. <br><br> You can also track hard and soft bounces in the <a href='/docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/message_activity_log_tab/#message-activity-log-tab'>Message Activity Log</a>. <br><br><i> An email bounce for customers using Sendgrid consists of hard bounces, spam, and emails sent to invalid addresses. </i>
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Bounces % or Bounce Rate"
    description: The percentage of messages that were unsuccessfully sent or designated as 'returned' or 'not received' from send services used or not received by the intended emailable users. This could occur because there is not a valid push token, the email addresses were incorrect or deactivated, or the user unsubscribed after the campaign was launched. <br> <i> An email bounce for customers using Sendgrid consists of hard bounces, spam (`spam_report_drops`), and emails sent to invalid addresses (`invalid_emails`). </i>
    calculation: Bounces / Sends
  - name: Spam
    description: The total number of emails delivered that were marked as "spam." Braze <a href='/docs/help/best_practices/email/#unsubscribed-email-addresses'>automatically unsubscribes</a> users that marked an email as spam, and those users won’t be targeted by future emails.
    calculation: (Marked as Spam) / (Sends)
  - name: "Spam % or Spam Rate"
    description: The percentage of emails delivered that were marked or otherwise designated as "spam." Braze <a href='/docs/help/best_practices/email/#unsubscribed-email-addresses'>automatically unsubscribes</a> users that marked an email as spam, and those users won’t be targeted by future emails.
    calculation: (Marked as Spam) / (Sends)
  - name: Unique Opens
    description: The total number of delivered emails that have been opened by a single user at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: (Unique Opens) / (Deliveries)
  - name: "Unique Opens % or Unique Open Rate"
    description: The percentage of delivered emails that have been opened by a single user at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: (Unique Opens) / (Deliveries)
  - name: Unique Clicks
    description: Distinct number of recipients who have clicked within a message at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Unique Clicks % or Click Rate"
    description: Distinct number of recipients who have clicked within a message at least once. This is tracked over a 7 day period for Email.
    calculation: Unique Clicks / Deliveries
  - name: Unsubscribers or Unsub
    description: Number of messages resulting in an unsubscription. Unsubscriptions occur when a user clicks on the Braze unsubscribe link.
    calculation: Count
  - name: "Unsubscribers % or Unsub Rate"
    description: Percentage of messages delivered which resulted in an unsubscription. Unsubscriptions occur when a user clicks on the Braze unsubscribe link.
    calculation: Unsubscribes / Deliveries
  - name: Revenue
    description: The total revenue in dollars from campaign recipients within the set <a href='/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/testing_and_more/conversion_events/#primary-conversion-event'>primary conversion window</a>.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Primary Conversions (A) or Primary Conversion Event
    description: The number of times a defined event occurred after interacting with or viewing a received message from a Braze campaign. This defined event is determined by the marketer when building the campaign.
    calculation: Count
  - name: Primary Conversions (A) or Primary Conversion Event
    description: The percentage of times a defined event occurred after interacting with or viewing a received message from a Braze campaign. This defined event is determined by the marketer when building the campaign.
    calculation: Primary Conversions / Unique Recipients
  - name: Confidence
    description: The percentage of confidence that a certain variant of a message is outperforming the control group.
  - name: Opened and Converted
    description: The number and percentage of unique email recipients who have, within the selected conversion window, opened the email and then converted.
  - name: Clicked and Converted
    description: The number and percentage of unique email recipients who have, within the selected conversion window, clicked the email and then converted.
  - name: Received and Converted
    description: The number and percentage of unique email recipients who have, within the selected conversion window, received the email and then converted.
---
