_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_funnel_reports.md, before:

---
nav_title: Funnel Report
title: Funnel Report
description: "This article covers the benefits of funnel reports, how to set them up, as well as how to interpret your report."
page_order: 4
---

# Funnel Report 

> Funnel Reporting offers a visual report that allows you to analyze the journeys your customers take after receiving a campaign or Canvas. If your campaign or Canvas uses a control group or multiple variants, you will be able to understand how the different variants have impacted the conversion funnel at a more granular level and optimize based on this data. ![Funnel Report 2][2]{: style="float:right;max-width:15%;margin-bottom:15px; border: 0"}

![Funnel Report 1][1]{: style="max-width:80%;"}

## Funnel Report Set Up
![Funnel Report 5][5]{: style="float:right;max-width:39%;border:0;margin-left:15px;"}

The funnel reporting feature is available from either:
- An individual campaigns analytics page in the Dashboard
- An individual Canvas details page, via the Analyze Variants button 

Funnel Reports can be made for existing active campaigns and Canvases. These reports show a series of events that a campaign recipient progresses through over a period of one (1) to thirty (30) days from the date they received the message. A user is considered converted through a step in the funnel if they perform the event in the specified order.

Please note that Funnel Reports are not currently available for SMS or API campaigns.

### Step 1: Select Time Frame

You can select a time frame for your report (within the past 6 months), and refine the data to see users who upon entering the Canvas, completed the funnel events within a set window (maximum of 30 days). In the example below, your funnel would look for users who received this Canvas in the last 7 days and completed the funnel within 3 days. 

![Funnel Report 5][6]{: style="max-width:80%;"}

### Step 2: Select Events for Funnel Steps

For every funnel report, the first event will be when the user receives your message. From there, the subsequent events you choose will funnel the number of users who performed those events, as well as the previous events. Please note that funnel report events for both campaign and Canvases funnels allow for start session, make a purchase, and custom events, while __only campaign funnels__ include message engagement events right now.

![Funnel Report 3][3]{: style="max-width:80%;"}

For example, if you select a 14-day report time window, followed by the events "added to cart" and "made a purchase", you will see __both__ the number of users who added to cart within 14 days of receiving the message, as well as the number of users who added to cart and then made a purchase within seven days of receiving the campaign. 

Once you have selected Build Report, generating the funnel report may take several minutes. During this time, you can navigate away from the report to other pages in the dashboard. You’ll receive an in-dashboard notification when your report is ready.

## Interpreting your Funnel Report

In your funnel report, you will be able to directly compare the control group alongside the variants you have set up. Each consecutive event will show what percentage of the previous users satisfied that action and converted through the funnel. 

__Funnel Report Components:__
- __Horizontal axis__: Displays the percentage of message recipients who performed those actions. 
- __Chart__: Displays the number of received messages, the number of users that performed the prior actions as well as the action you chose, the conversion rate, and the percentage change from control.
- __Regenerate Option__: Allows you to regenerate your report and notes when the current report was last generated. 
- __Variants__: Denoted by colored columns, funnel reporting allows up to 8 variants and a control group. By default, the __chart__ will only show three variants. To see more, you can manually select the rest of the variants.

![Funnel Report 4][4]{: style="max-width:90%;"}

__For campaigns with multiple variants__, Braze will show a table that displays metrics for each event and variant, as well as the percentage change from control. The conversion rate is the number of users who performed the event (and subsequent ones) per message recipients.

__For campaigns with re-eligibility__: If a user receives the campaign more than once in the report time window, Braze will determine whether the user should be included in the funnel based on the actions this user took after the first time they received the campaign within the time window.

__For multivariant campaigns with re-eligibility__: If a user receives multiple variants from the campaign during the report time window, Braze will determine whether they should be included in the variant funnel based on the actions this user took after the first time they received the campaign variant. This means that the same user could count towards multiple different variants if they received multiple variants during the time window for the funnel.

[1]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report1.jpg %}
[2]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report2.png %}
[3]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report3.png %}
[4]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report4.jpg %}
[5]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/canvas_campaign.png %}
[6]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report5.png %}

Commit message:

Update Campaign and Canvas sections

_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_funnel_reports.md, after:

---
nav_title: Funnel Report
title: Funnel Report
page_order: 4

page_type: reference
description: "This reference article covers the benefits of funnel reports, how to set them up, as well as how to interpret your report."
tool:
- Canvas
- Reports
---

# Funnel Report 

> Funnel Reporting offers a visual report that allows you to analyze the journeys your customers take after receiving a campaign or Canvas. If your campaign or Canvas uses a control group or multiple variants, you will be able to understand how the different variants have impacted the conversion funnel at a more granular level and optimize based on this data. ![Funnel Report 2][2]{: style="float:right;max-width:15%;margin-bottom:15px; border: 0"}

![Funnel Report 1][1]{: style="max-width:80%;"}

## Funnel Report Set Up
![Funnel Report 5][5]{: style="float:right;max-width:39%;border:0;margin-left:15px;"}

The funnel reporting feature is available from either:
- An individual campaigns analytics page in the Dashboard
- An individual Canvas details page, via the Analyze Variants button 

Funnel Reports can be made for existing active campaigns and Canvases. These reports show a series of events that a campaign recipient progresses through over a period of one (1) to thirty (30) days from the date they received the message. A user is considered converted through a step in the funnel if they perform the event in the specified order.

Please note that Funnel Reports are not currently available for SMS or API campaigns.

### Step 1: Select Time Frame

You can select a time frame for your report (within the past 6 months), and refine the data to see users who upon entering the Canvas, completed the funnel events within a set window (maximum of 30 days). In the example below, your funnel would look for users who received this Canvas in the last 7 days and completed the funnel within 3 days. 

![Funnel Report 5][6]{: style="max-width:80%;"}

### Step 2: Select Events for Funnel Steps

For every funnel report, the first event will be when the user receives your message. From there, the subsequent events you choose will funnel the number of users who performed those events, as well as the previous events. Please note that funnel report events for both campaign and Canvases funnels allow for start session, make a purchase, and custom events, while __only campaign funnels__ include message engagement events right now.

![Funnel Report 3][3]{: style="max-width:80%;"}

For example, if you select a 14-day report time window, followed by the events "added to cart" and "made a purchase", you will see __both__ the number of users who added to cart within 14 days of receiving the message, as well as the number of users who added to cart and then made a purchase within seven days of receiving the campaign. 

Once you have selected Build Report, generating the funnel report may take several minutes. During this time, you can navigate away from the report to other pages in the dashboard. You’ll receive an in-dashboard notification when your report is ready.

## Interpreting your Funnel Report

In your funnel report, you will be able to directly compare the control group alongside the variants you have set up. Each consecutive event will show what percentage of the previous users satisfied that action and converted through the funnel. 

__Funnel Report Components:__
- __Horizontal axis__: Displays the percentage of message recipients who performed those actions. 
- __Chart__: Displays the number of received messages, the number of users that performed the prior actions as well as the action you chose, the conversion rate, and the percentage change from control.
- __Regenerate Option__: Allows you to regenerate your report and notes when the current report was last generated. 
- __Variants__: Denoted by colored columns, funnel reporting allows up to 8 variants and a control group. By default, the __chart__ will only show three variants. To see more, you can manually select the rest of the variants.

![Funnel Report 4][4]{: style="max-width:90%;"}

__For campaigns with multiple variants__, Braze will show a table that displays metrics for each event and variant, as well as the percentage change from control. The conversion rate is the number of users who performed the event (and subsequent ones) per message recipients.

__For campaigns with re-eligibility__: If a user receives the campaign more than once in the report time window, Braze will determine whether the user should be included in the funnel based on the actions this user took after the first time they received the campaign within the time window.

__For multivariant campaigns with re-eligibility__: If a user receives multiple variants from the campaign during the report time window, Braze will determine whether they should be included in the variant funnel based on the actions this user took after the first time they received the campaign variant. This means that the same user could count towards multiple different variants if they received multiple variants during the time window for the funnel.

[1]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report1.jpg %}
[2]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report2.png %}
[3]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report3.png %}
[4]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report4.jpg %}
[5]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/canvas_campaign.png %}
[6]:{% image_buster /assets/img/funnel_report/funnel_report5.png %}
