---
nav_title: June 24, 2025
description: "This article contains release notes for June 24, 2025."
page_order: 6 
page_type: reference
---

# June 24, 2025 release

## OfferFit by Braze

[OfferFit](https://www.offerfit.ai/) replaces A/B testing with AI decisioning that personalizes everything, and maximizes any metric: drive dollars, not clicks—with OfferFit, you can optimize any business KPI. Refer to our dedicated section [OfferFit by Braze]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/offerfit) for sample use cases and key features. 

## New SDK tutorials

Each Braze SDK tutorial offers step-by-step instructions along with full sample code. Choose a tutorial below to get started:

- [Displaying Banners]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/banners/tutorial_displaying_banners)
- [Customizing in-app message styling]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/in_app_messages/tutorials/customizing_message_styling)
- [Conditionally displaying in-app messages]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/in_app_messages/tutorials/conditionally_displaying_messages)
- [Deferring triggered in-app messages]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/in_app_messages/tutorials/deferring_triggered_messages)

## Data flexibility

### SAML just-in-time provisioning

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Use [SAML just-in-time provisioning]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/single_sign_on/saml_jit) to allow new dashboard users to create a Braze account on their first sign in. This eliminates the need for administrators to manually create an account for a new dashboard user, choose their permissions, assign them to a workspace, and wait for them to activate their account.

### Filters per selection

You can now add up to 10 filters per [selection]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/selections).

### Catalog storage

The storage size for the free version of [catalogs]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog/#catalog-storage) is up to 100&nbsp;MB. You can have unlimited items as long as they're under 100&nbsp;MB.

### Number of rows synced with Cloud Data Ingestion

By default, for Cloud Data Ingestion, each run can sync up to 500 million rows. Any syncs with more than 500 million new rows will be stopped.

Refer to [Cloud Data Ingestion product limitations]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/cloud_ingestion/overview/#product-limitations) for more details.

## Robust channels

### Accessibility testing in Inbox Vision

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Use [Accessibility testing]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/inbox_vision/#accessibility-testing) in Inbox Vision to highlight accessibility issues that may exist with your email. 

Accessibility testing analyzes your email content against some [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/) (WCAG) 2.2 AA requirements. This can provide insights into which elements aren't meeting accessibility standards.

### Click tracking for WhatsApp

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can turn on [click tracking]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/whatsapp_campaign/click_tracking) in both response and template messages to see click data in your WhatsApp performance reports and be able to segment users based on who clicked what.

### Videos for WhatsApp

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can [embed videos]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/whatsapp_campaign/create/#supported-whatsapp-features) within the body text for outbound WhatsApp messages. These files must be hosted through URL or in the [Braze media library]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/templates_and_media/media_library).

## New Braze partnerships

### Stripe - eCommerce

The Braze and [Stripe]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/stripe) intergation allows you to trigger messaging in Braze based on Stripe events such as trial started, subscription activated, subscription cancellation, and more.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [React Native SDK 15.0.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Flutter SDK 14.0.1-14.0.2](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog)
- [Cordova SDK 12.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-cordova-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1200)
    - Updated the native Android bridge [from Braze Android SDK 35.0.0 to 36.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v35.0.0...v36.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Updated the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 11.6.1 to 12.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/11.6.1...12.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
- [Segment Kotlin 4.0.0-4.0.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-segment-kotlin/blob/4.0.0/CHANGELOG.md#400)
    - Updated Braze Android SDK [from 35.0.0 to 36.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v35.0.0...v36.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed)
