---
nav_title: September 16, 2025
description: "This article contains release notes for September 16, 2025."
page_order: 3
page_type: reference
---

# September 16, 2025 release

## Data flexibility

CONTENT.

## Unlocking creativity

CONTENT.

## Robust channels

CONTENT.

## AI and ML automation

CONTENT.

## SECTION_TITLE

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Beta" %}

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

CONTENT.

## New Braze partnerships

### Blings - Message personalization

[Blings](https://www.blings.io/) is a next-generation personalized video platform that enables you to deliver real-time, interactive, and data-driven video experiences across channels at scale. To get started, see [Blings partner documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/blings/).

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Braze Flutter SDK 15.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-flutter-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1500)
    - Updates the native Android bridge from Braze Android SDK `36.0.0` to `39.0.0`.
    - Updates the native iOS bridge from Braze Swift SDK `12.0.0` to `13.2.0`. This includes Xcode 26 support.

- [Braze Swift SDK 7.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1300)
  - Updates the Braze Swift SDK bindings to require releases from the `13.0.0+` SemVer denomination. This allows compatibility with any version of the Braze SDK from `13.0.0` up to, but not including, `14.0.0`.
