_includes/decisioning_studio/about.md, before:

# BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™

> Get started with BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™ (formerly OfferFit by Braze) to make 1:1 AI decisions that maximize your business metrics.

## What's BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™?

[BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™](https://www.braze.com/product/brazeai-decisioning-studio/) replaces A/B testing with AI decisioning that personalizes everything, and maximizes any metric: drive dollars, not clicks&#8212;with the decisioning studio, you can optimize any business KPI.

BrazeAI™ decisioning agents automatically discover the optimal action for every customer. Using your first-party data, BrazeAI™ can maximize any business KPI for a wide range of use cases, including cross-sell, upsell, repurchase, retention, renewal, referral, winback, and more.

The AI Decisioning Services team will tailor BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™ to the specific needs of your business. While the decisioning studio works best with Braze, a variety of other platforms are already supported. Read the documentation to understand detailed integration steps, including supported platforms.

To learn more, [book a call](https://www.braze.com/get-started/) with Braze.

## Key features

- **Keep your tech stack, but add a brain:** BrazeAI™ plugs in as a decisioning layer between your data systems and your customer engagement platform
- **Pick winners for people, not segments:** Use all your first-party data to make the optimal 1:1 decision for each individual.
- **Personalize everything:** AI decisioning agents find the best message, product, incentive, channel, timing, and frequency for each individual customer
- **Maximize any metric:** Clicks aren’t dollars. Use BrazeAI™ to pick the offers or incentives that maximize revenue, profit, CLV, or any other business KPI.
- **Open the black box:** See how AI decisioning agents personalize for deep insights into the drivers of customer behavior

## About agents

### How it works

An agent is a custom configuration for BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™ that's tailor-made to meet a specific business goal.

For example, you could build a repeat purchase agent to increase follow-up conversions after an initial sale. You define the audience and message in Braze, while the decisioning studio runs daily experiments, automatically testing different combinations of product offers, message timing, and frequency for each customer. Over time, BrazeAI™ learns what works best and orchestrates personalized sends through Braze to maximize repurchase rates.

Designing a good agent consists of:

- Choosing a success metric for BrazeAI™ to optimize for, such as revenue, conversions, or ARPU
- Defining which dimensions to test, such as offer, subject line, creative, channel, or send time.
- Selecting the options for each dimension, such as email versus SMS, or daily versus weekly frequency.

### Sample use cases for Decisioning Studio agents

Here are some examples of agents that you can build with BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™. Your AI decisioning agents will learn from every customer interaction and apply those insights to the next day's actions.

{% multi_lang_include decisioning_studio/sample_agents.md %}
3. [Setting up Decisioning Studio Pro agents]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/)
4. [Viewing reports and insights]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/reporting/)

Commit message:

Add example diagram for referral email use case
Added an example diagram to illustrate decisioning studio agent for referral emails.

_includes/decisioning_studio/about.md, after:

# BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™

> Get started with BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™ (formerly OfferFit by Braze) to make 1:1 AI decisions that maximize your business metrics.

## What's BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™?

[BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™](https://www.braze.com/product/brazeai-decisioning-studio/) replaces A/B testing with AI decisioning that personalizes everything, and maximizes any metric: drive dollars, not clicks&#8212;with the decisioning studio, you can optimize any business KPI.

BrazeAI™ decisioning agents automatically discover the optimal action for every customer. Using your first-party data, BrazeAI™ can maximize any business KPI for a wide range of use cases, including cross-sell, upsell, repurchase, retention, renewal, referral, winback, and more.

The AI Decisioning Services team will tailor BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™ to the specific needs of your business. While the decisioning studio works best with Braze, a variety of other platforms are already supported. Read the documentation to understand detailed integration steps, including supported platforms.

![Example diagram of a decisioning studio agent for referral emails.]({% image_buster /assets/img/offerfit/example_use_cases_referral_email.png %})

To learn more, [book a call](https://www.braze.com/get-started/) with Braze.

## Key features

- **Keep your tech stack, but add a brain:** BrazeAI™ plugs in as a decisioning layer between your data systems and your customer engagement platform
- **Pick winners for people, not segments:** Use all your first-party data to make the optimal 1:1 decision for each individual.
- **Personalize everything:** AI decisioning agents find the best message, product, incentive, channel, timing, and frequency for each individual customer
- **Maximize any metric:** Clicks aren’t dollars. Use BrazeAI™ to pick the offers or incentives that maximize revenue, profit, CLV, or any other business KPI.
- **Open the black box:** See how AI decisioning agents personalize for deep insights into the drivers of customer behavior

## About agents

### How it works

An agent is a custom configuration for BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™ that's tailor-made to meet a specific business goal.

For example, you could build a repeat purchase agent to increase follow-up conversions after an initial sale. You define the audience and message in Braze, while the decisioning studio runs daily experiments, automatically testing different combinations of product offers, message timing, and frequency for each customer. Over time, BrazeAI™ learns what works best and orchestrates personalized sends through Braze to maximize repurchase rates.

Designing a good agent consists of:

- Choosing a success metric for BrazeAI™ to optimize for, such as revenue, conversions, or ARPU
- Defining which dimensions to test, such as offer, subject line, creative, channel, or send time.
- Selecting the options for each dimension, such as email versus SMS, or daily versus weekly frequency.

### Sample use cases for Decisioning Studio agents

Here are some examples of agents that you can build with BrazeAI Decisioning Studio™. Your AI decisioning agents will learn from every customer interaction and apply those insights to the next day's actions.

{% multi_lang_include decisioning_studio/sample_agents.md %}
3. [Setting up Decisioning Studio Pro agents]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/)
4. [Viewing reports and insights]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/reporting/)
