---
nav_title: October 18, 2022
page_order: 1
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 10/18/2022."
---

# October 18, 2022 release

## User profile Messaging History

The **Message History** tab of the user profile shows recent messaging related events (about 40) for an individual user from the past 30 days. These events include the messages that the user was sent, received, interacted with, and more. Refer to [User profiles]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/user_profiles/#messaging-history-tab) to learn more. 

## Content Blocks for Drag & Drop Editor

The [Content Blocks]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/templates_and_media/content_blocks/) used exclusively in the Drag & Drop Editor are similar in functionality to the Content Blocks used across different channels. They're a centralized location for holding information that can be referenced in various email campaigns. This can include grouping together email headers, promotional callouts, and more all in one reusable row.

## Shopify ScriptTag

The [Braze and Shopify Integration]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_orchestration/channel_extensions/ecommerce/shopify) now allows you to embed our Web SDK integration via ScriptTag on to your Shopify store. Embedding our Web SDK via ScriptTag supports tracking the following:
- Anonymous user tracking to track guest activity in your store
- Monthly active user tracking as the Web SDK is capable of tracking session data from your store visitors
- Option to collect Shopify on-site activity users which will count toward your data point consumption
- Option to enable in-browser messaging as a channel on your Shopify store

## SCIM endpoint

Use the following Braze SCIM endpoints to manage automated user provisioning:
- [DELETE: Remove Dashboard User Account]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/scim/delete_existing_dashboard_user/)
- [GET: Look Up an Existing Dashboard User Account]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/scim/get_see_user_account_information/)
- [POST: Create New Dashboard User Account]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/scim/post_create_user_account/)
- [PUT: Update Dashboard User Account]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/scim/put_update_existing_user_account/)

## SMS Fuzzy opt-outs

[Fuzzy opt-out]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/sms/keywords/fuzzy_opt_out#fuzzy-opt-out) attempts to recognize when an inbound SMS message does not match an opt-out keyword, but indicates opt-out intent. If fuzzy opt-out is enabled and an inbound keyword response is deemed "fuzzy", Braze will automatically respond asking the user to confirm their intent.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 23.2.0-23.2.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2321)
- [iOS Objective-C SDK 4.5.1](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#451)
- [iOS Swift SDK 5.5.0S-SDK 5.5.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#550)
- [Cordova SDK 2.31.0](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-cordova-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2310)
  - Updated to [Braze Android SDK 23.0.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/releases/tag/v23.0.1).
- [Unity 3.10.0](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#3100)
- [React SDK v1.39.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1400)
  - Updated the native Android SDK to 23.2.0.
  - Renamed the `kotlin_versio`n gradle template variable to `kotlinVersion`
- [Flutter SDK 2.6.0](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog#260)
  - The native Android bridge uses Braze Android SDK 23.2.0.
  - The native iOS bridge uses Braze iOS SDK 4.5.1.
  - `process(inAppMessage)` is renamed to `processInAppMessage(inAppMessage)` in the iOS layer.
- [Segment iOS 4.6.0](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-segment-ios/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#460)
  - Updated to Braze [iOS SDK 4.5.1+](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#451).
