---
nav_title: May 3, 2022
page_order: 7
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 5/3/2022."
alias: "/help/release_notes/2022/june/"
---

# May 3, 2022 release

## Campaign approval

Campaign approval adds a review process to your workflow before launching a campaign. Now, you can ensure that each confirmation is approved in order to launch the campaign. To learn more about the approval process, check out [Campaign approval]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/messaging_fundamentals/approvals/).

## Canvas Message Step

Message Steps allow you to add a standalone message where you want in your Canvas Flow. Visit our [message step]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/message_step/) article to learn more.

## AI copywriting assistant

The Braze [AI copywriting assistant]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/intelligence/ai_copywriting#ai-copywriting-assistant) passes a brief product name or description to OpenAI's GPT3 copy generation tool to generate human-like marketing copy for use in your messaging. This functionality is available by default for most message composers in the Braze dashboard.

## iOS push notification unit testing guide

An [iOS unit testing guide for push notifications]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/push_notifications/unit_tests#unit-tests) has been added to the developer guide. This guide will provide unit tests that will verify whether your app delegate is correctly set up. 

## Google privacy questionnaire

As of April 2022, Android developers must complete Google Play's [Data safety form][4] to disclose privacy and security practices. [This guide]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/android/google_play_privacy#google-play-privacy-questionnaire) provides instructions on how to fill out this new form with information on how Braze handles your app data. 

## RelayState SAML SSO

Initial single sign-on set-up instructions have been updated to recommend use of a `RelayState` API key. For more information, refer to [SAML SSO setup]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/single_sign_on/set_up/) and corresponding [OneLogin]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/single_sign_on/onelogin/), [Okta]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/single_sign_on/okta/), and [Azure Active Directory]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/single_sign_on/entra/) articles. 

## Talon.One integration updates

Our [Talon.One]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_orchestration/channel_extensions/loyalty/talonone#talonone) partnership article now has updated integration steps, endpoints, and examples. If you are leveraging the Talon.One partnership, we recommend updating your integration accordingly.

## Braze Web SDK V4 released

The Braze SDKs team has released Web SDK v4. For a list of breaking changes, updates, and additions, visit our Web SDK [changelog](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md). An [upgrade guide](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/UPGRADE_GUIDE.md) has been created for those upgrading from V3 to V4.

## Grouparoo deprecation

Support for Grouparoo has been discontinued as of April 2022.
