---
nav_title: September 20, 2022
page_order: 2
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 9/20/2022."
---

# September 20, 2022 release

## API guide
Check out the [Braze API Guide]({{site.baseurl}}/api/home) to search for endpoints based on endpoint types, helping you narrow down the glossary.

## Personalized Variants
Use [Personalized Variants]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/multivariant_testing/optimizations/) to send each user in your target segment the variant they're most likely to engage with.

## Testing Canvases
After creating your Canvas, there are several checks you may want to perform before launching, depending on details such as your audience size or number of segmentation filters. Check out [Sending test Canvases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/testing_canvases/sending_test_canvases/) for tips.

## Liquid 5
For existing Braze users, Liquid 5 is generally available. Learn more about [what's new with Liquid 5]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid#whats-new-with-liquid-5).

## New Braze partnerships

### Shopify
The Braze and [Shopify]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/shopify/) allows you to update existing user profiles or create new ones in Braze for leads, sign-ups, and account registrations being captured in your Shopify store.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 23.1.0–23.12](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [React Native SDK v1.38.0–v1.38.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
	- Updated the native Android bridge to Braze Android SDK 23.0.1.
	- Updated the native iOS bridge to Braze iOS SDK 4.5.0.
	- The Braze React Native Android SDK now requires Kotlin directly for compilation.
- [Braze Expo Plugin 0.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
	- Renamed the prop `fcmSenderID` to `firebaseCloudMessagingSenderId`.
- [Unity 3.9.0](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
	- Updated the Android plugin to use Braze Android SDK 23.1.0.
	- Added the ability to request push notification permissions on Android 13+ devices via `Appboy.AppboyBinding.PromptUserForPushPermissions(false)`.
- [Swift SDK 5.3.0–5.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#540)
