---
nav_title: Data Transformation
hidden: true
---

# Braze’s Data Transformation

> Braze’s [Data Transformation]({{site.baseurl}}/data_transformation/) tool can ingest a webhook from a partner platform and allow a customer to define a mapping to convert that webhook's payload to the desired user data, such as attributes, events, or purchases on Braze user profiles.

{% alert note %}
Data transformation is currently in early access. Customers wanting to use a partner integration that utilizes Data Transformation will need to contact their customer success manager to get access to the tool.
{% endalert %}

## What a Data Transformation based integration would look like

A Partner integration based on the Data Transformation feature could be a transformation code template shared with customers through public documentation.

For mutual customers, it would look something like this:

1. They log into your platform and set up webhooks.
2. They work with their Braze team to get access to Braze Data Transformation and create a new transformation within their Braze dashboard.
3. The URL generated by the transformation is copied.
4. Back in Braze, they send a test webhook to the copied transformation URL.
5. Within the Braze platform, they copy and paste the transformation code template.
6. They enable the transformation
7. Once enabled, they can verify through the Braze user search tool that the user profile is updated based on the webhook and edit the transformation code as desired.

{% alert tip %}
When building out Transformation code examples, creating a Transformation per webhook type sent to Braze is recommended.
{% endalert %}