---
nav_title: November 15, 2022
page_order: 0.5
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 11/15/2022."
---

# November 15, 2022 release

## New Drag & Drop Editor for in-app messages

With the new [Drag & Drop Editor for in-app messages]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/drag_and_drop), you can create completely custom and personalized in-app messages without needing to know HTML. The Drag & Drop Editor is being rolled out to all customers over the next few months. If you'd like to request access sooner, reach out to your customer success manager.

## Updates to Drag & Drop Editor for email

### New editor blocks

Two new editor block have been added to the Drag & Drop Editor for email: [Paragraph blocks]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/dnd_editor_blocks/#paragraph) and [List blocks]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/dnd_editor_blocks/#list).

{% alert important %}
The existing Text block is being deprecated, but any existing email that has a Text block will continue to be supported.
{% endalert %}

### Dark Mode Preview

When [previewing and testing your emails]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/#step-3b-preview-and-test-your-message) in the drag-and-drop editor, you can now turn on **Dark Mode Preview** to see what your email looks like for dark mode users.

## Winning Path early access

Available as part of Experiment Paths in Canvas, [Winning Path]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/experiment_step/#step-2-turn-on-winning-path-optional) lets you automate your A/B tests. When Winning Path is turned on, after a specified period of time, all subsequent users will be sent down the path with the highest conversion rate.

This feature is currently in early access. If you're interested in participating in the early access, reach out to your customer success manager.

## In-app messages and Content Cards on tvOS

This new article covers the nuances of integrating [in-app messages and Content Cards on tvOS]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/in_app_messages/?sdktab=tvos), which are available through the Braze Swift SDK.

## New Liquid use case

We've added a new use case to the [Liquid Use Case Library]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/liquid_use_cases#misc-personalize-content) on how to use a customer's subscription state to personalize content in messages. With this use case, customers are who subscribed to a specific subscription group will receive an exclusive message for both email and SMS subscription groups.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. There are no breaking updates with these releases. All other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 23.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2330)
- [Web SDK 4.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#440)
- [Unity SDK 3.11.0](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#3110)
- [Xamarin SDK 1.26.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-xamarin-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1260)
- [iOS Swift SDK 5.6.0–5.6.2](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#562)
- [Flutter SDK 2.6.1](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog#261)
