---
nav_title: April 5, 2022
page_order: 8
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 4/5/2022."
alias: "/help/release_notes/2022/may/"
---

# April 5, 2022 release

## Filter by campaign or Canvas attribution
You can now filter for users who have replied to a specific SMS campaign or Canvas step, keyword category, or tag. For more information, see [SMS retargeting]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/sms/campaign/retargeting/).

## Email performance dashboard
With the [email performance dashboard]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/analytics/), you can view aggregate performance metrics for your entire email channel from both campaigns and Canvases for your selected date range.

For more information about the analytics dashboards available within Braze, check out the [Your Analytics Dashboards]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/analytics/understanding_your_app_usage_data/) section.

## Global style settings

Introducing [global style settings]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/dnd_email_style_settings/) for the Drag & Drop Editor! Now, you can easily personalize the look of your email campaigns and Canvases by adding a default theme, setting basic text styling, and more.

## Braze to Braze webhooks
With a Braze to Braze webhook, you can use webhooks to communicate with the Braze REST API, doing anything that our API allows you to do. Essentially, this is a webhook that is communicating from Braze to Braze. For more information, see our [Braze to Braze webhooks]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/webhooks/braze_to_braze_webhooks/) article.

## Deprecations

### Windows SDK
As of March 24, 2022, the [Braze Windows SDK]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/sdk_integration/initialization/?sdktab=web/) is deprecated, and no new Windows apps can be created in the Braze dashboard. 

### Baidu push integration
As of March 24, 2022, the [Braze Baidu Push Integration]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/android/push_notifications/android/integration/baidu_integration/) is deprecated, and no new Baidu apps can be created in the Braze dashboard. 

## New Braze partnerships

### Tealium for Currents

The Braze and [Tealium]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/customer_data_platform/tealium/tealium_for_currents/) integration allows you to seamlessly control the flow of information between the two systems. Now with Currents, you can also connect data to Tealium to make it actionable across the entire growth stack.


