---
nav_title: January 7, 2025
page_order: 12
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 1/7/2025."
---

# January 7, 2025 release

## Unlocking creativity

### In-app messages templates

We added [templates]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/drag_and_drop/) for drag-and-drop in-app messages.

### B2B Salesforce Sales Cloud lead management

[Managing leads with Salesforce Sales Cloud]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/getting_started/b2b_use_cases/b2b_salesforce_sales_cloud/) demonstrates how to use Braze webhooks to create and update leads in Salesforce Sales Cloud through a community-submitted integration.

## Robust channels

### Canvas templates

We added Braze Canvas templates for [email sign-up with double opt-in]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/get_started/braze_templates/email_signup/) and [onboarding with preferences survey]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/get_started/braze_templates/preference_survey/).

### Changes to WhatsApp Opt-in policy

Meta recently updated their [opt-in policy](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/overview/getting-opt-in/). For additional information, refer to [WhatsApp product updates]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/meta_resources/).

### Width tool for Content Blocks in the email drag-and-drop editor

You can [adjust the width]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/dnd_content_blocks/#using-the-editor-to-add-a-content-block) of your Content Block in the drag-and-drop email editor. The default width is 100%.

## Data flexibility

### Soft Bounced segment filter

Segment your users by whether they soft bounced X times in Y days. For more information, refer to [Segmentation filters glossary]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters#soft-bounced).

### Anonymous users overview

[Anonymous users]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/user_data_collection/user_profile_lifecycle/anonymous_users/) provides an overview of anonymous users and user aliases, outlining their significance and how they can be leveraged in your messages.

### Global Control Group membership

You can [view Global Control Group membership]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/global_control_group/#view-whether-a-user-is-in-a-global-control-group) by going to the **Engagement** tab of an individual user's profile and scrolling to the **Miscellaneous** section.

## New Braze partnerships

### Justuno - Leads capture

[Justuno]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/leads_capture/justuno/) lets you create fully optimized visitor experiences for all of your audiences with dynamic segments, offering the most advanced targeting available&#8212;all without impacting site speed or increasing dev work.

### Odicci - Customer data platform

Integrate Braze with [Odicci]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/odicci/), a platform that empowers businesses to acquire, engage and retain customers through loyalty driven omnichannel experiences.

### Optimizely - A/B testing

The Braze and [Optimizely]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/ab_testing/optimizely/) integration is a two-way integration that allows you to:

- Sync your Braze customer segments and events to Optimizely Data Platform (ODP) nightly to enrich Optimizely customer profiles, reports, and segmentation.
- Send Braze Currents events from Braze to Optimizely’s reporting tool.
- Sync ODP customer data and events to Braze to enrich your Braze customer data and trigger Braze messaging based on customer events in ODP.