---
nav_title: February 4, 2025
page_order: 11
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 2/4/2025."
---

# February 4, 2025 release

## Braze Docs improvements

### Contributing Guide
Our recent updates to the [Contributing Guide]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing/your_first_contribution) makes it easier for non-technical users to contribute to Braze Docs.

### Data and Analytics revamp
To make it easier for you to find what you're looking for, we separated the articles formerly nested under "Data & Analytics" into [Data]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data) and [Analytics]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/analytics). 

### Developer Guide
We've done a huge cleanup of all docs across the [Braze Developer Guide]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/home), which included merging "how-to's" split across multiple pages into a single page.

There's also a new [SDK reference page]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/references) that lists all of the reference documentation and repositories for each Braze SDK.

#### Unreal Engine Braze SDK
We migrated and rewrote all content from the Unreal Engine Braze SDK GitHub repository README into its [dedicated section on Braze Docs]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/sdk_integration/?sdktab=unreal%20engine).

## Data flexibility

### API usage dashboard

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

The [API usage dashboard]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/analytics/dashboard/api_usage_dashboard) lets you monitor your incoming REST API traffic into Braze to understand your trends within your usage of our REST APIs and to troubleshoot any potential issues.

### Adding tags to custom attributes

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can [add tags to a custom attribute]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/custom_data/custom_attributes#adding-tags) after it's created if you have the "Manage Events, Attributes, Purchases" permission. The tags can then be used to filter the list of attributes.

### Catalog selections and async catalog fields endpoints 

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

The following endpoints are now generally available:
* [POST: Create Catalog Fields]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_fields/asynchronous/post_create_catalog_fields)
* [DELETE: Delete Catalog Field]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_fields/asynchronous/delete_catalog_field)
* [DELETE: Delete Catalog Selection]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_selections/asynchronous/delete_catalog_selection)
* [POST: Create Catalog Selection]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_selections/asynchronous/post_create_catalog_selections)

### Using an email address to trigger campaigns or Canvases

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can now specify a recipient by email address to trigger your [campaigns]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/messaging_fundamentals/targeting_users/) and [Canvases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/create_a_canvas/?tab=target%20audience#step-2c-set-your-target-entry-audience).

### Using a phone number to identify a user via the API

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can now use a phone number, in addition to an alias and email address, to identify a user through the [`/users/identify` API endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_identify)

### Getting a SAML trace
We added [steps on how to obtain a SAML trace]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/single_sign_on/set_up#obtaining-a-saml-trace), which helps you resolve issues about SAML SSO with Support more efficiently.
 
### Region-specific data centers
As Braze is growing to serve new areas, we've added an [article about Braze data centers]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/data_centers) to clarify our operational approach.

 
## Unlocking creativity
 
### Price drop notifications and back-in-stock notifications

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can now notify customers when an item is back-in-stock by setting up [back-in-stock notifications]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog_triggers/back_in_stock_notifications) through a Canvas and catalog.

You can also create [price drop notifications]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog_triggers/price_drop_notifications) to notify customers when an item's price has decreased by setting up price drop notifications in a catalog and Canvas.

### Preview for selection 

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

After creating a selection, you can [view what a selection would return]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/selections/#test-and-preview) for either a random user or a specific user.

### Templating catalog items including Liquid 

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can [template catalog items that include Liquid]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/using_catalogs/#using-liquid).

### Canvas templates
We added new Canvas templates for [onboarding users with a preferences survey]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/get_started/braze_templates/preference_survey) and [creating an email sign-up with double opt-in]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/get_started/braze_templates/email_signup).

### Managing leads with Salesforce Sales Cloud for B2B
One way B2B marketers can use Braze is through an integration with the Salesforce Sales Cloud. Read more about how to implement this [use case]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/getting_started/b2b_use_cases/b2b_salesforce_sales_cloud).
 
## Robust channels

### Suppression lists

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Beta" %}
 
[Suppression lists]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/suppression_lists) specify groups of users who will never receive messages. Admins can create suppression lists with segment filters to narrow down a user group the same way you would for segmentation.

## New Braze partnerships

### Constructor - Dynamic content
[Constructor]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/ecommerce/product_search_recommendations/constructor/) is a search and product discovery platform that uses AI and machine learning to deliver personalized search, recommendations, and browsing experiences for ecommerce and retail websites.
 
### Trustpilot - Dynamic content
[Trustpilot]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/trustpilot/) is an online review platform that enables your customers to share feedback and allows you to manage and respond to reviews.

## SDK updates
 
The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.
 
- [Braze Android SDK 34.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#3400)
    - Updated the minimum SDK version from 21 (Lollipop) to 25 (Nougat).
