_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/context.md, before:

---
nav_title: Context 
article_title: Context 
alias: /context/
page_order: 1.5
page_type: reference
description: "This reference article covers how to create and use Context steps in your Canvas."
tool: Canvas

---

# Context

> Context steps allow you to create and update one or more variables for a user as they move through a Canvas. For example, if you have a Canvas that manages seasonal discounts, you can use a context variable to store a different discount code each time a user enters the Canvas.

{% alert important %}
Context steps are currently in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you're interested in participating in this early access.
{% endalert %}

## How it works

![A Context step as the first step of a Canvas.][1]{: style="float:right;max-width:40%;margin-left:15px;"}

A context variable is a temporary piece of custom data that exists only during a user’s journey through that specific Canvas. It does not persist across different Canvases or outside the journey where it is created.

Each Context step can define multiple context variables, providing a flexible way to personalize delays, segment users dynamically, and enrich messaging without permanently changing a user's profile data.

For example, if you're managing flight bookings, you could create a context variable for each user's scheduled flight time. You could then set delays relative to each user’s flight time and send personalized reminders from the same Canvas.

You can set context variables in two ways:

- **At Canvas entry:** When users enter a Canvas, data from the event or API trigger can automatically populate context variables.
- **In a Context step:** You can define or update context variables manually inside the Canvas by adding a Context step.

Each context variable includes:

- A name (such as `flight_time` or `subscription_renewal_date`)
- A [data type](#context-variable-types) (such as number, string, time, or array)
- A value you assign using [Liquid]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/) or through the **Add Personalization** tool.

When defined, you can use a context variable throughout the Canvas by referencing it in this format: {% raw %}`{{context.${example_variable_name}}}`{% endraw %}.

For example,
{% raw %}`{{context.${flight_time}}}{% endraw %}` could return the user’s scheduled flight time.

Each time a user enters the Canvas&#8212;even if they have entered it before&#8212;the context variables will be redefined based on the latest entry data and Canvas setup. This allows journeys to stay personalized and accurate, even for users with multiple entries.

## Creating a Context step

### Step 1: Add a step

Add a step to your Canvas, then drag and drop the component from the sidebar, or select the <i class="fas fa-plus-circle"></i> plus button and select **Context**.

### Step 2: Define the variables

{% alert note %}
You can define up to 10 context variables for each Context step.
{% endalert %}

To define a context variable:

1. Give your context variable a **name**.
2. Select a [data type](#context-variable-types).
3. Write a Liquid expression manually or use **Add Personalization** to create a Liquid snippet from pre-existing attributes.
4. Select **Preview** to check the value of your context variable.
5. (Optional) To additional variables, select **Add Context variable** and repeat steps 1–4.
6. When you're finished, select **Done**.

Now you can use your context variable anywhere you use Liquid, such as in Message and User Update steps, by selecting **Add Personalization**. For a full walkthrough, see [Using context variables](#using-context-variables).

### Step 3: Test exit criteria (optional)

If the context variables are valid, you can reference the variables throughout your Canvas. However, your users can exit the steps in a user journey after a Context step for the following reasons:

- The context variable doesn't return any value (is null).
- A call to an embedded Connected Content fails.
- The context variable types don't match.

We recommend testing and [previewing your user paths]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/testing_canvases/preview_user_paths) to make sure your messages are sent to the right audience.

## Context variable data types {#context-variable-types}

Context variables that are created or updated in the step can be assigned the following data types.

{% alert note %}
Context variables have the same expected formats for data types as [custom events]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/custom_data/custom_events/#expected-format), but context variables do not support nested objects.
{% endalert %}

| Data type | Example variable name | Example value |
|---|---|---|
|Boolean| loyalty_program |{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${active_member}}}</code>{% endraw %}| 
|Number| credit_score |{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Credit Score}}}</code>{% endraw %}|
|String| product_name |{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Product}}}</code>{% endraw %} |
|Array| favorite_products|{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Favorites}}}</code>{% endraw %}|
|Time| last_purchase_date|{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Last Purchase Date}}}</code>{% endraw %}|
|Object (flattened) | user_profile|{% raw %}<code>{<br>&emsp;"first_name": "{{user.first_name}}",<br>&emsp;"last_name": "{{user.last_name}}",<br>&emsp;"email": "{{user.email}}",<br>&emsp;"loyalty_points": {{user.loyalty_points}},<br>&emsp;"preferred_categories": {{user.preferred_categories}}<br>}</code>{% endraw %} |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

## Using context variables {#using-context-variables}

For example, let's say you want to send your users personalized recommendations about discounts for cosmetic products in your retail brand. These users will enter the Canvas if they haven't made a purchase yet. The first step of the user journey will be a Delay step for one day to allow time for users to consider their purchase.

To provide these recommendations based on their preferences, we'll create two context variables in the Context step to reference in the subsequent steps of the user journey:

- `favorite_category`
- `discount_code`

![Two context variables set up to track a user's favorite category and the associated discount code.][2]{: style="max-width:90%"}

Next, we'll set up a Message step for push notifications that includes the discount code for their favorite product category. The Liquid snippets for the context variables will be:

{% raw %}
- `{{context.${discount_code} | default: 'SPRING10'}}` 
- `{{context.${favorite_category} | default: 'sitewide'}}`
{% endraw %}

Based on the user's favorite category, they'll receive an exclusive discount code to use.

![A Message step for a push notification with a discount code for a user's favorite product category.][3]{: style="max-width:90%"}

{% alert tip %}
You can add [personalized delay options]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/delay_step/#personalized-delays) with the information from the Context step, meaning you can select the variable that delays users.
{% endalert %}

## Converting strings to JSON

For consistency and error prevention, JSON returned by a [Connected Content call]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/connected_content/making_an_api_call) will be evaluated as a string data type. If you want to convert this string into JSON, convert it by using `as_json_string`. For example:

{%raw%}
```liquid
{% connected_content http://example.com :save product %}
{{ product | as_json_string }}
```
{%endraw%}

## Troubleshooting

### Mismatched data types

If the Liquid expression at runtime returns a value that doesn't match the data type, the context variable won't be updated. For example, if the data type is set to **Number** but the value returns a string, the following will occur:

- The user will either advance to the next step or exit if it's the last step in the Canvas. 
- The Canvas step analytics will count this as _Not Updated_.

Refer to [Context variable data types](#context-variable-types) for the example setups for each data type.

## Frequently asked questions

### How do context variables differ from Canvas entry properties?

If you're participating in the Context step early access, Canvas entry properties are now part of Canvas context variables, meaning `canvas_entry_properties` is now referenced as `context`. This also means you can send Canvas entry properties using the Braze API and reference them in other steps, similar to using a context variable with the Liquid snippet.

### Can variables reference each other in a singular Context step?

Yes. All variables in a Context step are evaluated in a sequence, meaning you could have the following context variables setup:

| Context variable | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
|`favorite_cuisine`| {% raw %}`{{custom_attribute.${Favorite Cuisine}}}`{% endraw %} | A user's favorite type of cuisine. |
|`promo_code`| {% raw %}`{{custom_attribute.${coupon_code}}}`{% endraw %} | The available discount code for a user. |
|`personalized_message`|  {% raw %}`"Enjoy a discount of" {{promo_code}} "on delivery from your favorite" {{favorite_cuisine}} restaurants!"`{% endraw %} | A personalized message that combines the previous variables. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3 role="presentation" }

In a Message step, you could use the Liquid snippet {% raw %}`{{context.${personalized_message}}}`{% endraw %} to reference the context variable to deliver a personalized message to each user.

This also applies to multiple Context steps. For example, if Context step A defines Variable A as `job_title`, and Message step A uses Variable A, then Context step C updates Variable A to be `job_description`, then all subsequent steps referencing Variable A will have the value of `job_description`.

[1]: {% image_buster /assets/img/context_step3.png %}
[2]: {% image_buster /assets/img/context_example1.png %}
[3]: {% image_buster /assets/img/context_example2.png %}

Commit message:

Addressing confusion around what happens when Context step doesn't update user context

_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/context.md, after:

---
nav_title: Context 
article_title: Context 
alias: /context/
page_order: 1.5
page_type: reference
description: "This reference article covers how to create and use Context steps in your Canvas."
tool: Canvas

---

# Context

> Context steps allow you to create and update one or more variables for a user as they move through a Canvas. For example, if you have a Canvas that manages seasonal discounts, you can use a context variable to store a different discount code each time a user enters the Canvas.

{% alert important %}
Context steps are currently in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you're interested in participating in this early access.
{% endalert %}

## How it works

![A Context step as the first step of a Canvas.][1]{: style="float:right;max-width:40%;margin-left:15px;"}

A context variable is a temporary piece of custom data that exists only during a user’s journey through that specific Canvas. It does not persist across different Canvases or outside the journey where it is created.

Each Context step can define multiple context variables, providing a flexible way to personalize delays, segment users dynamically, and enrich messaging without permanently changing a user's profile data.

For example, if you're managing flight bookings, you could create a context variable for each user's scheduled flight time. You could then set delays relative to each user’s flight time and send personalized reminders from the same Canvas.

You can set context variables in two ways:

- **At Canvas entry:** When users enter a Canvas, data from the event or API trigger can automatically populate context variables.
- **In a Context step:** You can define or update context variables manually inside the Canvas by adding a Context step.

Each context variable includes:

- A name (such as `flight_time` or `subscription_renewal_date`)
- A [data type](#context-variable-types) (such as number, string, time, or array)
- A value you assign using [Liquid]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/) or through the **Add Personalization** tool.

When defined, you can use a context variable throughout the Canvas by referencing it in this format: {% raw %}`{{context.${example_variable_name}}}`{% endraw %}.

For example,
{% raw %}`{{context.${flight_time}}}{% endraw %}` could return the user’s scheduled flight time.

Each time a user enters the Canvas&#8212;even if they have entered it before&#8212;the context variables will be redefined based on the latest entry data and Canvas setup. This allows journeys to stay personalized and accurate, even for users with multiple entries.

## Creating a Context step

### Step 1: Add a step

Add a step to your Canvas, then drag and drop the component from the sidebar, or select the <i class="fas fa-plus-circle"></i> plus button and select **Context**.

### Step 2: Define the variables

{% alert note %}
You can define up to 10 context variables for each Context step.
{% endalert %}

To define a context variable:

1. Give your context variable a **name**.
2. Select a [data type](#context-variable-types).
3. Write a Liquid expression manually or use **Add Personalization** to create a Liquid snippet from pre-existing attributes.
4. Select **Preview** to check the value of your context variable.
5. (Optional) To additional variables, select **Add Context variable** and repeat steps 1–4.
6. When you're finished, select **Done**.

Now you can use your context variable anywhere you use Liquid, such as in Message and User Update steps, by selecting **Add Personalization**. For a full walkthrough, see [Using context variables](#using-context-variables).

### Step 3: Test user paths (optional)

If the context variable is valid, you can reference the variable throughout your Canvas. However, if the context variable wasn't created correctly, future steps in your Canvas won't perform correctly either. For example, if you create a context variable to assign users an appointment time but set the appointment time's value to a past date, the reminder email you craft in your Message step will never be sent. 

We recommend testing and [previewing your user paths]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/testing_canvases/preview_user_paths) to make sure your messages are sent to the right audience. Look out for common scenarios that create [invalid context variables](#troubleshooting).

## Context variable data types {#context-variable-types}

Context variables that are created or updated in the step can be assigned the following data types.

{% alert note %}
Context variables have the same expected formats for data types as [custom events]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/custom_data/custom_events/#expected-format), but context variables do not support nested objects.
{% endalert %}

| Data type | Example variable name | Example value |
|---|---|---|
|Boolean| loyalty_program |{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${active_member}}}</code>{% endraw %}| 
|Number| credit_score |{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Credit Score}}}</code>{% endraw %}|
|String| product_name |{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Product}}}</code>{% endraw %} |
|Array| favorite_products|{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Favorites}}}</code>{% endraw %}|
|Time| last_purchase_date|{% raw %}<code>{{custom_attribute.${Last Purchase Date}}}</code>{% endraw %}|
|Object (flattened) | user_profile|{% raw %}<code>{<br>&emsp;"first_name": "{{user.first_name}}",<br>&emsp;"last_name": "{{user.last_name}}",<br>&emsp;"email": "{{user.email}}",<br>&emsp;"loyalty_points": {{user.loyalty_points}},<br>&emsp;"preferred_categories": {{user.preferred_categories}}<br>}</code>{% endraw %} |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

## Using context variables {#using-context-variables}

For example, let's say you want to send your users personalized recommendations about discounts for cosmetic products in your retail brand. These users will enter the Canvas if they haven't made a purchase yet. The first step of the user journey will be a Delay step for one day to allow time for users to consider their purchase.

To provide these recommendations based on their preferences, we'll create two context variables in the Context step to reference in the subsequent steps of the user journey:

- `favorite_category`
- `discount_code`

![Two context variables set up to track a user's favorite category and the associated discount code.][2]{: style="max-width:90%"}

Next, we'll set up a Message step for push notifications that includes the discount code for their favorite product category. The Liquid snippets for the context variables will be:

{% raw %}
- `{{context.${discount_code} | default: 'SPRING10'}}` 
- `{{context.${favorite_category} | default: 'sitewide'}}`
{% endraw %}

Based on the user's favorite category, they'll receive an exclusive discount code to use.

![A Message step for a push notification with a discount code for a user's favorite product category.][3]{: style="max-width:90%"}

{% alert tip %}
You can add [personalized delay options]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/delay_step/#personalized-delays) with the information from the Context step, meaning you can select the variable that delays users.
{% endalert %}

## Converting strings to JSON

For consistency and error prevention, JSON returned by a [Connected Content call]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/connected_content/making_an_api_call) will be evaluated as a string data type. If you want to convert this string into JSON, convert it by using `as_json_string`. For example:

{%raw%}
```liquid
{% connected_content http://example.com :save product %}
{{ product | as_json_string }}
```
{%endraw%}

## Troubleshooting {#troubleshooting}

### Invalid context variables

A context variable is considered invalid when:
- A call to an embedded Connected Content fails.
- The Liquid expression at runtime returns a value that doesn't match the data type or is empty (null).

For example, if the context variable data type is **Number** but the Liquid expression returns a string, it is invalid.

In these circumstances: 
- The user will advance to the next step. 
- The Canvas step analytics will count this as _Not Updated_.

Keep an eye on your _Not Updated_ analytic when troubleshooting and ensure your context variable is updating correctly. Your users can continue in your Canvas past the Context step but not qualify for later steps if the context variable is invalid.

Refer to [Context variable data types](#context-variable-types) for the example setups for each data type.

## Frequently asked questions

### How do context variables differ from Canvas entry properties?

If you're participating in the Context step early access, Canvas entry properties are now part of Canvas context variables, meaning `canvas_entry_properties` is now referenced as `context`. This also means you can send Canvas entry properties using the Braze API and reference them in other steps, similar to using a context variable with the Liquid snippet.

### Can variables reference each other in a singular Context step?

Yes. All variables in a Context step are evaluated in a sequence, meaning you could have the following context variables setup:

| Context variable | Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
|`favorite_cuisine`| {% raw %}`{{custom_attribute.${Favorite Cuisine}}}`{% endraw %} | A user's favorite type of cuisine. |
|`promo_code`| {% raw %}`{{custom_attribute.${coupon_code}}}`{% endraw %} | The available discount code for a user. |
|`personalized_message`|  {% raw %}`"Enjoy a discount of" {{promo_code}} "on delivery from your favorite" {{favorite_cuisine}} restaurants!"`{% endraw %} | A personalized message that combines the previous variables. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3 role="presentation" }

In a Message step, you could use the Liquid snippet {% raw %}`{{context.${personalized_message}}}`{% endraw %} to reference the context variable to deliver a personalized message to each user.

This also applies to multiple Context steps. For example, if Context step A defines Variable A as `job_title`, and Message step A uses Variable A, then Context step C updates Variable A to be `job_description`, then all subsequent steps referencing Variable A will have the value of `job_description`.

[1]: {% image_buster /assets/img/context_step3.png %}
[2]: {% image_buster /assets/img/context_example1.png %}
[3]: {% image_buster /assets/img/context_example2.png %}
