_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/get_started/the_basics.md, before:

---
nav_title: The Basics
page_order: 1
description: "This reference article covers the basics of Canvas, covering various questions you should ask your self as you set up your first Canvas."
---
{% comment %}
Separate "The Basics" section into "Find Your Strategy" and "Building Your Customer Journey" and "Anatomy of a Canvas" - move Anatomy of a Canvas to Create a Canvas and put it 1st.
Also, create a real form for them to download - need to write in where this information will become useful. Maybe not call it a form... Makes it sound like there's an output...
{% endcomment %}

# Canvas: The Basics

## Find Your Strategy with the Five W's of Visualization

Fill in the form below to get started:

* __What__ am I trying to help the customer do or understand?_________________________
    (Canvas Name)

* __When__ will a user start this experience? Pick one.
    * Enter users at a designated time:
        * Scheduled
        * Start a session
        * Perform a custom event
        * Enter a location
        * Interact with or leave another campaign or Canvas

    * Enter user when they perform actions: Action-Based
        * Make purchase
        * Start a session
        * Perform a custom event
        * Enter a location
        * Interact with or leave another campaign or Canvas<br><br>

* __Who__ are we trying to reach? _________________________ (Segment Name) with [optional] additional filters:
    * Custom Data
    * User Activity
    * Retargeting
    * Marketing Activity
    * User Attributes
    * Install Attribution
    * Social Activity<br><br>

* __Why__ am I creating this canvas?
    * Start Session: I want them coming back and engaging with the app.
    * Make Purchase: I want them to buy.
    * Perform Custom Event: I want them to perform a specific action that I’m tracking as a custom event.<br><br>

*  __Where__ will we reach them?
    * Push (Android, iOS, Windows, web)
    * Email
    * Webhook<br><br>

*  __How__ will we reach them? (Great place to test different messaging configurations)
    * Timing: Schedule or trigger messages using tools like Intelligent Timing and delays after trigger events
    * Cadence & Channel: Use one channel and then another or sent messages on multiple channels simultaneously
    * Content: Build creative with strong appeals, value propositions, and CTAs
    * Targeting: Add additional segments and/or filters
    * Triggers: Use customer actions to trigger messages<br><br>

## Anatomy of Canvas

{% comment %}
Replace all images below. Thinking of restructuring section with one labeled image and clickable tabs
{% endcomment %}

{% tabs %}
  {% tab Canvas %}
    __Canvas__ refers to the workspace and overall visualization.
    ![Journey]({% image_buster /assets/img/Canvas2.png %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Journey %}
    A __journey or customer journey__ is an individual user's experience within the Canvas.
    ![Journey_2]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Journey_2.png %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Entry Step %}
    __The Entry Step__ and __The Entry Wizard__ is the first step you take when creating your Canvas. Here, you can control the way your users begin and fulfill their customer journey.
    ![Journey_3]({% image_buster /assets/img/entry-wizard.gif %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Variants %}
    __Variants__ are the variant flows marketers build that create personalized journeys.
    ![Journey_3]({% image_buster /assets/img/variants.gif %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Steps %}
    __Steps__ are individual decision points (like messages) within a variant.
    ![Journey_4]({% image_buster /assets/img/steps.gif %})
  {% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}


## Building The Customer Journey In Canvas

### Name Your Canvas: The “What”

Never underestimate the power of the name. Braze is built for collaboration so this is a good time to get grounded in how you’ll communicate goals with your team. You can add Tags (including Teams Tags) and name both steps and variants within the Canvas. For more on customer journeys, check out our [Mapping User Lifecycles LAB course](http://lab.braze.com/mapping-customer-lifecycles)!


### Create Starting Conditions: The “When”

When will a customer run into this Canvas? Users can enter your Canvas in two ways: scheduled or action-based triggers.

| Scheduled | Action-Based |
|---|---|
|You can use scheduled delivery when you want to send a Canvas out immediately to your target audience, have it regularly sent, or schedule it for a specific time in the future. | These Canvases respond to specific customer behaviors as they happen. These action-based triggers can include opening your app, making a purchase, interacting with another campaign, or triggering any custom event. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}


### Select an Entry Audience for Entry: The “Who”

Who are you trying to reach? Here you can use a pre-defined segment and add further filters. Filters include:

| Filter | Description |
|---|---|
| Custom Data | Custom data filters allow you to segment users based on events and attributes you define. With them, you can use features specific to your product. |
| User Activity | User activity filters allow you to segment customers based on their actions and purchases. |
| Retargeting | Retargeting filters allow you to segment customers who have been sent, received, or interacted with previous Campaigns or Canvases. |
| Marketing Activity | Marketing filters segment customers based on universal behaviors like last engagement or received campaigns. |
| User Attributes | User attribute filters segment customers by their constant attributes and characteristics. |
| Install Attribution | Install attribution filters segment customers by their first source, adgroup, campaign, or ad. |
| Social Activity | Social activity filters segment customers by their social media activity namely through connection to Facebook and Twitter. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}

Only the users who match these target audience criteria can enter the journey.

### Identify Conversion Events: The “Why”
Why are you building this Canvas? It’s always important to have a defined goal in mind and Canvas helps you understand how you are performing against KPIs like session engagement, purchases, and custom events.

Selecting at least one conversion event will give you the ability to understand your campaign performance and also to help you optimize performance within the Canvas as if your Canvas has multiple variants and/or a control group Braze will use the conversion event to determine the best variation for achieving this goal.

### Build the Experience: The “How” and “Where”

1. __Setting up variants:__ A variant is the trail each customer follows on their journey. Canvas supports up to eight variants with a control group. While not required, you can name each variant, as well as control the distribution of the target audience following each variant.

2. __Building steps:__ A step is a marketing decision point—what is the experience you’re creating? Within a step, you can set triggers or schedule delivery, refine targeting by adding filters or marking [exception events][1] and add channels from email to push to webhooks.

3. __Determining when and how to use steps & variants:__ Each Canvas must have at least one variant and at least one step. The sky's the limit from there—so how do you decide on the shape of your Canvas? That’s where your goals, data, and hypothesis come into play. The “how” and “where” brainstorm from above will help you map out the right shape and structure of your Canvas. There are a couple approaches you can use:
    - __Work backward:__ Some goals have smaller sub-goals. For instance, if you’re aiming for converting a free user into a subscription, you may need a page with your subscription services outlined. A visitor may need to see the options before they purchase. You may focus your messaging efforts on showing them this page before a checkout page. Working backward to understand the journey a customer must go through to get to your goal is key to guiding them through to conversion.
    - __Start with the status quo and add more:__ Have you ran a similar campaign in the past? Or is one currently running? Use that one message and add to it. Try a new filter or add a followup message. Look at your performance and keep optimizing by making incremental changes.
    - __Look to others:__ Imitation is the highest form of flattery. Don’t reinvent in the wheel. Don’t worry, we have you covered. At the end of this guide, you’ll find some outlines that can help you get started.


[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/exception_events/

Commit message:

Update Campaign and Canvas sections

_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/get_started/the_basics.md, after:

---
nav_title: The Basics
page_order: 1

page_type: reference
description: "This reference article covers the basics of Canvas, covering various questions you should ask your self as you set up your first Canvas."
tool: Canvas
---
{% comment %}
Separate "The Basics" section into "Find Your Strategy" and "Building Your Customer Journey" and "Anatomy of a Canvas" - move Anatomy of a Canvas to Create a Canvas and put it 1st.
Also, create a real form for them to download - need to write in where this information will become useful.
{% endcomment %}

# Canvas: The Basics

## Find Your Strategy with the Five W's of Visualization

Answer the questions below to get started:

* __What__ am I trying to help the customer do or understand?_________________________
    (Canvas Name)

* __When__ will a user start this experience? Pick one.
    * Enter users at a designated time:
        * Scheduled
        * Start a session
        * Perform a custom event
        * Enter a location
        * Interact with or leave another campaign or Canvas

    * Enter user when they perform actions: Action-Based
        * Make purchase
        * Start a session
        * Perform a custom event
        * Enter a location
        * Interact with or leave another campaign or Canvas<br><br>

* __Who__ are we trying to reach? _________________________ (Segment Name) with [optional] additional filters:
    * Custom Data
    * User Activity
    * Retargeting
    * Marketing Activity
    * User Attributes
    * Install Attribution
    * Social Activity<br><br>

* __Why__ am I creating this canvas?
    * Start Session: I want them coming back and engaging with the app.
    * Make Purchase: I want them to buy.
    * Perform Custom Event: I want them to perform a specific action that I’m tracking as a custom event.<br><br>

*  __Where__ will we reach them?
    * Push (Android, iOS, Windows, web)
    * Email
    * Webhook<br><br>

*  __How__ will we reach them? (Great place to test different messaging configurations)
    * Timing: Schedule or trigger messages using tools like Intelligent Timing and delays after trigger events
    * Cadence & Channel: Use one channel and then another or sent messages on multiple channels simultaneously
    * Content: Build creative with strong appeals, value propositions, and CTAs
    * Targeting: Add additional segments and/or filters
    * Triggers: Use customer actions to trigger messages<br><br>

## Anatomy of Canvas

{% comment %}
Replace all images below. Thinking of restructuring section with one labeled image and clickable tabs
{% endcomment %}

{% tabs %}
  {% tab Canvas %}
    __Canvas__ refers to the workspace and overall visualization.
    ![Journey]({% image_buster /assets/img/Canvas2.png %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Journey %}
    A __journey or customer journey__ is an individual user's experience within the Canvas.
    ![Journey_2]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/Journey_2.png %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Entry Step %}
    __The Entry Step__ and __The Entry Wizard__ is the first step you take when creating your Canvas. Here, you can control the way your users begin and fulfill their customer journey.
    ![Journey_3]({% image_buster /assets/img/entry-wizard.gif %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Variants %}
    __Variants__ are the variant flows marketers build that create personalized journeys.
    ![Journey_3]({% image_buster /assets/img/variants.gif %})
  {% endtab %}

  {% tab Steps %}
    __Steps__ are individual decision points (like messages) within a variant.
    ![Journey_4]({% image_buster /assets/img/steps.gif %})
  {% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}


## Building The Customer Journey In Canvas

### Name Your Canvas: The “What”

Never underestimate the power of the name. Braze is built for collaboration so this is a good time to get grounded in how you’ll communicate goals with your team. You can add Tags (including Teams Tags) and name both steps and variants within the Canvas. For more on customer journeys, check out our [Mapping User Lifecycles LAB course](http://lab.braze.com/mapping-customer-lifecycles)!


### Create Starting Conditions: The “When”

When will a customer run into this Canvas? Users can enter your Canvas in two ways: scheduled or action-based triggers.

| Scheduled | Action-Based |
|---|---|
|You can use scheduled delivery when you want to send a Canvas out immediately to your target audience, have it regularly sent, or schedule it for a specific time in the future. | These Canvases respond to specific customer behaviors as they happen. These action-based triggers can include opening your app, making a purchase, interacting with another campaign, or triggering any custom event. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}


### Select an Entry Audience for Entry: The “Who”

Who are you trying to reach? Here you can use a pre-defined segment and add further filters. Filters include:

| Filter | Description |
|---|---|
| Custom Data | Custom data filters allow you to segment users based on events and attributes you define. With them, you can use features specific to your product. |
| User Activity | User activity filters allow you to segment customers based on their actions and purchases. |
| Retargeting | Retargeting filters allow you to segment customers who have been sent, received, or interacted with previous Campaigns or Canvases. |
| Marketing Activity | Marketing filters segment customers based on universal behaviors like last engagement or received campaigns. |
| User Attributes | User attribute filters segment customers by their constant attributes and characteristics. |
| Install Attribution | Install attribution filters segment customers by their first source, adgroup, campaign, or ad. |
| Social Activity | Social activity filters segment customers by their social media activity namely through connection to Facebook and Twitter. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}

Only the users who match these target audience criteria can enter the journey.

### Identify Conversion Events: The “Why”
Why are you building this Canvas? It’s always important to have a defined goal in mind and Canvas helps you understand how you are performing against KPIs like session engagement, purchases, and custom events.

Selecting at least one conversion event will give you the ability to understand your campaign performance and also to help you optimize performance within the Canvas as if your Canvas has multiple variants and/or a control group Braze will use the conversion event to determine the best variation for achieving this goal.

### Build the Experience: The “How” and “Where”

1. __Setting up variants:__ A variant is the trail each customer follows on their journey. Canvas supports up to eight variants with a control group. While not required, you can name each variant, as well as control the distribution of the target audience following each variant.

2. __Building steps:__ A step is a marketing decision point—what is the experience you’re creating? Within a step, you can set triggers or schedule delivery, refine targeting by adding filters or marking [exception events][1] and add channels from email to push to webhooks.

3. __Determining when and how to use steps & variants:__ Each Canvas must have at least one variant and at least one step. The sky's the limit from there—so how do you decide on the shape of your Canvas? That’s where your goals, data, and hypothesis come into play. The “how” and “where” brainstorm from above will help you map out the right shape and structure of your Canvas. There are a couple approaches you can use:
    - __Work backward:__ Some goals have smaller sub-goals. For instance, if you’re aiming for converting a free user into a subscription, you may need a page with your subscription services outlined. A visitor may need to see the options before they purchase. You may focus your messaging efforts on showing them this page before a checkout page. Working backward to understand the journey a customer must go through to get to your goal is key to guiding them through to conversion.
    - __Start with the status quo and add more:__ Have you ran a similar campaign in the past? Or is one currently running? Use that one message and add to it. Try a new filter or add a followup message. Look at your performance and keep optimizing by making incremental changes.
    - __Look to others:__ Imitation is the highest form of flattery. Don’t reinvent in the wheel. Don’t worry, we have you covered. At the end of this guide, you’ll find some outlines that can help you get started.


[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/exception_events/
