---
nav_title: October 15, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for October 15, 2024."
page_order: 2
page_type: reference
---
 
# October 15, 2024 release

## Data flexibility

### Campaigns and Canvases

While creating campaigns and Canvases, you can calculate the exact number of reachable users in your target audience instead of the default estimation by selecting [Calculate exact statistics]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/creating_a_segment/#statistics-for-segment-size).

### API Android objects

The [`android_priority` parameter]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/messaging/android_object/#additional-parameter-details) will accept values either “normal” or “high” to specify the FCM sender priority. By default, notification messages are sent with high priority, and data messages are sent with normal priority.

For more information on how different values impact delivery, see [Android message priority](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/android/message-priority/).

### SDK

Use the [Braze SDK's built-in debugger]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_wide/debugging/) to troubleshoot issues for your SDK-powered channels without needing to enable verbose logging in your app.

### Live Activities

We updated the [frequently asked questions]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/swift/live_activities/faq/) for Swift Live Activities with a few new questions and answers.

### Custom events

[Event property objects]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_events/#custom-event-properties) that contain array or object values can now have an event property payload of up to 100&nbsp;KB.

### Random bucket numbers

Use [random audience re-entry with random bucket numbers]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/random_bucket_numbers/#random-audience-re-entry-using-random-bucket-numbers) for A/B testing or targeting specific user groups in your campaigns.

## Unlocking creativity

## Robust channels

### Landing pages

[Connect your own domain]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/landing_pages/connect_domain/) to your Braze workspace to customize your landing page URLs with your brand.

### LINE and Braze

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Beta" %}

We added new documentation:

- [LINE message types]({{site.baseurl}}/line/create/message_types/) covers the LINE message types you can compose, including aspects and limitations, and is part of the LINE beta collection.
- [User account linking]({{site.baseurl}}/line/line_setup/#user-account-linking) allows users to link their LINE account to your app’s user account. You can then use Liquid in Braze, such as {% raw %}`{{line_id}}`{% endraw %}, to create a personalized URL for the user that passes the user's LINE ID back to your website or app, which can then be associated with a known user.

### WhatsApp and Braze

[WhatsApp Business Accounts (WABA)]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/overview/#step-2-whatsapp-setup) can now be shared with multiple Business Solution Providers.

## New Braze partnerships

### Future Anthem

[Future Anthem](https://www.futureanthem.com/)’s all-in-one product for the real money gaming industry, Amplifier AI, delivers content personalization, real-time experiences, and dynamic audiences. Amplifier AI works seamlessly across sports, casino, and lottery, allowing you to enhance Braze player profiles with industry-specific player attributes, such as favorite game, favorite team, engagement score, next bet recommendation, expected next bet, and more.

## AI and ML automation

## Settings

### Indentifier field-level encryption

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Using [identifier field-level encryption]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/field_level_encryption/), you can seamlessly encrypt email addresses with AWS Key Management Service (KMS) to minimize personally identifiable information (PII) shared in Braze. Encryption replaces sensitive data with ciphertext, which is unreadable encrypted information.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.