---
nav_title: January 9, 2024
page_order: 12
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 1/9/2024."
---

# January 9, 2024 release

## Updated Shopify integration documentation

We've updated sections of our Braze and Shopify integration documentation, including:

- [Getting started with Shopify]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/ecommerce/shopify_legacy/getting_started_shopify/)
- [Setting up Shopify in Braze]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_orchestration/channel_extensions/ecommerce/shopify/setting_up_shopify/)
- [Shopify user identity management]({{site.baseurl}}/shopify_user_identity/)

## Data flexibility

### Back-in-stock notifications for catalogs

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

Using a combination of [back-in-stock notifications]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog_triggers/back_in_stock_notifications/) through catalogs and a Canvas, you can notify customers when an item is back-in-stock. Any time a customer performs a selected custom event, they can be automatically subscribed to be notified when the item is replenished.

### Catalog segments

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

[Catalog segments]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/sql_segments/catalog_segments/) are an audience of users based on catalog data in SQL Segment Extensions. These SQL Segment Extensions can be referenced in a segment and then targeted by campaigns and Canvases. Catalog segments use SQL to join data from catalogs and data from custom events or purchases. To do so, you must have a common identifier field across your catalogs and your custom events or purchases.

### Migrating to the Firebase Cloud Messaging API

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

Learn [how to migrate]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/push_notifications/?sdktab=android) from Google’s deprecated Cloud Messaging API to their fully-supported Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) API.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Swift SDK 7.5.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Adds privacy manifests for `BrazeKit` and `BrazeLocation` to describe Braze's data collection policies. For more details, refer to Apple's [documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/bundleresources/privacy_manifest_files/describing_data_use_in_privacy_manifests) on privacy manifests. More configurations to manage your data collection practices will be made available in a future release.
    - Fixes an issue with the code signatures of XCFrameworks introduced in 7.1.0.
- [Web SDK v5.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Unity SDK 5.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Updated the native iOS bridge from Braze Swift SDK 6.1.0 to 7.4.0.
        - The iOS repository link now points to the prebuilt dynamic XCFrameworks from this [repository](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk-prebuilt-dynamic).
    - Updated the native Android bridge from Braze Android SDK 27.0.1 to 29.0.1.
    - `AppboyBinding.GetFeatureFlag(string id)` will now return `null` if the feature flag does not exist.
    - `FEATURE_FLAGS_UPDATED` will only trigger when a refresh request completes with success or failure, and upon initial subscription if there was previously cached data from the current session.

