---
nav_title: March 5, 2024
page_order: 10
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 3/5/2024."
---

# March 5, 2024 release

## Google EU User Consent Policy

Google is updating their [EU User Consent Policy](https://www.google.com/about/company/user-consent-policy/) in response to changes to the [Digital Markets Act (DMA)](https://ads-developers.googleblog.com/2023/10/updates-to-customer-match-conversion.html), which is in effect as of March 6, 2024. This new change requires advertisers to disclose certain information to their EEA and UK end users, as well as obtain necessary consents from them. As part of this upcoming change, you can [collect both consent signals in Braze as custom attributes]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/canvas_steps/google_audience_sync/#collecting-consent-for-eea-and-uk-end-users). Braze will sync the data from these custom attributes to the appropriate consent fields in Google.

## Data flexibility

### Merge duplicate users

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

In the Braze dashboard, you can now [search for and merge duplicate users]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/user_profiles/duplicate_users) to maximize the effectiveness of your campaigns and Canvases. You can individually merge user profiles or perform a bulk merge, which merges all profiles with matching identifiers into the most recently updated user profile.

### Search for archived content

In the Braze dashboard, you can now include [archived content in your search results]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/global_search/#filter-for-archived-content) by selecting **Show Archived Content**.

### Message archiving support for AWS S3 and Google Cloud Storage

You can use [message archiving]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/export_braze_data/message_archiving/) to save a copy of your messages sent to users for archival or compliance purposes to your AWS S3 bucket, Azure Blob Storage container or Google Cloud Storage bucket.

### SQL table reference

Visit the [SQL table reference]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/sql_segments/sql_segments_tables/) to see the tables and columns available to be queried in the Query Builder or when generating SQL Segment Extensions.

## Unlocking creativity

### Tone control for AI copywriting

You can now choose a [message tone]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/generative_ai/ai_copywriting/#steps) to determine the style of the copy generated with the AI copywriting assistant.

## Robust channels

### Card creation

You can choose when Braze evaluates audience eligibility and personalization for new Content Card campaigns and Canvas steps by specifying when the card is [created]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/content_cards/create/card_creation/). 

### Preview user paths

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Experience the Canvas journey you’ve created for your users, including previewing the timing and messages they will receive. These [test runs]({{site.baseurl}}/preview_user_paths/) act as quality assurance that your messages are sent to the right audience, all before sending the Canvas.

### Quick push campaigns

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

When creating a push campaign in Braze, you can select multiple platforms and devices to craft one message for all platforms in a single editing experience called [quick push]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/creating_a_push_message/quick_push/). This feature is only available for campaigns.

### Custom list-unsubscribe header

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Adding a [custom list-unsubscribe header]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/email_settings/#custom-list-unsubscribe-header) to your email messaging allows your recipients to opt-out. This way, you can add your own configured one-click unsubscribe endpoint and an optional “mailto:”. Braze requires an input for URL to support a custom list-unsubscribe header because the one-click unsubscribe HTTP is a requirement from Yahoo and Gmail for bulk senders.

### Multiple pages for in-app messages

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

[Adding pages to your in-app message]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/drag_and_drop/create/#multi-page) lets you guide users through a sequential flow, like an onboarding flow or welcome journey. You can manage pages from the **Pages** section of the **Build** tab.

### Randomize paths for an experiment path

To always [randomize path assignment]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/experiment_step) for an Experiment Path step, select **Randomized Paths in Experiment Paths** in the step. This option is not available when using either Winning or Personalized Paths.

### Email capture form

[Email capture messages]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/traditional/customize/email_capture_form/) allow you to easily prompt users of your site to submit their email address, after which it will be available in their user profile for use in all your messaging campaigns.

## SDK updates
 
The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [AppboyKit iOS SDK 4.7.0](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/releases/tag/4.7.0)
    - This will be the final release for the Objective-C SDK before end-of-life on March 1, 2024 (in favor of using the [Swift SDK](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/)).
    - Updates the minimum required version of SDWebImage from 5.8.2 to 5.18.7. This version includes the privacy manifest for SDWebImage, which appears on the [privacy-impacting SDKs list](https://developer.apple.com/support/third-party-SDK-requirements/).
- [Flutter SDK 8.1.0](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog)
- [Unity 5.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [React Native SDK 8.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/8.4.0/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Xamarin SDK Version 4.0.2](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-xamarin-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Swift SDK 7.7.0-8.0.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#801)
- [Android SDK 30.1.0-30.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Web SDK 5.1.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Cordova SDK 8.0.0-Cordova SDK 8.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-cordova-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Updated the native Android bridge [from Braze Android SDK 27.0.1 to 30.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v27.0.0...v30.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Updated the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 6.6.0 to 7.6.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/6.6.0...7.6.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Renamed the `Banner` Content Card type to `ImageOnly`:
        - `ContentCardTypes.BANNER` to `ContentCardTypes.IMAGE_ONLY`
        - On Android, if the XML files in your project contain the word banner for Content Cards, it should be replaced with `image_only`.
    - `BrazePlugin.getFeatureFlag(id)` will now return `null` if the feature flag does not exist.
    - `BrazePlugin.subscribeToFeatureFlagsUpdates(function)` will only trigger when a refresh request completes with success or failure, and upon initial subscription if there was previously cached data from the current session.
    - Removed the deprecated method `registerAppboyPushMessages`. Use `setRegisteredPushToken` instead.
