---
nav_title: April 2, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for April 2, 2024."
page_order: 9
page_type: reference
---

# April 2, 2024 release

## Shopify OAuth

You can now [enable OAuth for Braze]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_orchestration/channel_extensions/ecommerce/shopify/setting_up_shopify/) in your Shopify workspace.

## WhatsApp

### Multiple business accounts

Now you can add multiple WhatsApp Business accounts and subscription groups to each workspace. For a full walkthrough, see [Multiple WhatsApp Business accounts and phone numbers]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/overview/multiple_subscription_groups/).

### Read rates

WhatsApp is testing new approaches, starting with consumers in India, to create more valuable experiences and maximize engagement with businesses’ marketing conversations. This may include limiting the number of marketing conversations a person receives from any business in a given period, starting with a small number of conversations that are less likely to be read. Braze will get an error code if a message is not delivered.

WhatsApp will start considering read rates as part of our quality rating for marketing templates, alongside traditional metrics like blocks and reports. WhatsApp may temporarily pause marketing message campaigns with low read rates, giving businesses time to iterate on the templates with the lowest engagement before scaling volume beginning on April 1, 2024.

For more information, see [Meta resources]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/meta_resources/).

## Data flexibility

### Sync your Amazon S3 bucket to Braze

You can now use Cloud Data Ingestion for S3 to directly integrate one or more S3 buckets in your AWS account with Braze. When new files are published to S3, a message is posted to SQS, and Braze Cloud Data Ingestion takes in those new files. For more information, see [File storage integrations
]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/cloud_ingestion/file_integrations/).

### iOS push notifications using Expo

We added instructions for integrating rich push notifications and push stories into your iOS app [using Expo with React Native]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/react_native/push_notifications/?tab=expo).

## Remote start live activities on iOS

Now you can remote start your live activities on iOS using the [`/messages/live_activity/start`]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/messaging/live_activity/start/) endpoint. For a full walkthrough, see [Live Activities: Start an Activity]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/swift/live_activities/live_activities/#step-2-start-the-activity).

## Unlocking creativity

CONTENT.

## Robust channels

CONTENT.

## AI and ML automation

### Item recommendations

With Sage AI by Braze, you can now calculate the most popular products or create personalized AI recommendations for a specific catalog. For more information, see [About item recommendations]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/sage_ai/recommendations/about_item_recommendations/).

### QA in-app messages with AI

Previously, you could QA your SMS and push notification content using Sage AI in the Braze dashboard. Now, you can [QA in-app message content]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/sage_ai/generative_ai/ai_content_qa/) too.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Beta" %}

CONTENT.

## New Braze partnerships

### Census - Cohort Import

You can now [import cohort users from Braze to Census]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/cohort_import/census/), a data activation platform that connects cloud data warehouses like Snowflake and BigQuery to Braze. Your marketing teams can unlock the power of their first-party data to build dynamic audience segments, sync customer attributes to personalize campaigns, and keep all their data in Braze up-to-date.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [SDK_NAME](LINK_TO_GITHUB_CHANGELOG)
  - OPTIONAL_CONTEXT.
- [SDK_NAME](LINK_TO_GITHUB_CHANGELOG)
- [SDK_NAME](LINK_TO_GITHUB_CHANGELOG)
