---
nav_title: September 17, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for September 17, 2024."
page_order: 3
page_type: reference
---
 
# September 17, 2024 release

## Data flexibility

### Braze Cloud Data Ingestion for S3

You can use [Cloud Data Ingestion (CDI) for S3]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/cloud_ingestion/file_storage_integrations/#aws-definitions) to directly integrate one or more S3 buckets in your AWS account with Braze. When new files are published to S3, a message is posted to SQS, and Braze Cloud Data Ingestion takes in those new files.

### Monthly active users CY 24-25

For customers who have purchased Monthly Active Users - CY 24-25, Braze manages different rate limits on its `/users/track` endpoint. For details, refer to [POST: Track Users]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_track/#monthly-active-users-cy-24-25). 

## Unlocking creativity

### Templating catalog items including Liquid

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

Use the `:rerender` flag in a Liquid tag to [render a catalog item's Liquid content]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog/#using-liquid). For example, if you render the following Liquid content:

{% raw %}
```liquid
Hi ${first_name}
{% catalog_items Messages greet_msg :rerender %}
{{ items[0].Welcome_Message }}
```
{% endraw %}

This will display as the following:

{% raw %}
```
Hi Peter,
Welcome to our store, Peter!
```
{% endraw %}

## Robust channels

### WhatsApp response messages

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can use [response messages]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/whatsapp_campaign/create#response-messages) to reply to inbound WhatsApp messages from your users. These messages are built in-app on Braze during your composition experience and can be edited at any time. You can use Liquid to match the response message language to the appropriate users.

### Canvas templates

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Create [Canvas templates]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/create_a_canvas/canvas_templates/) to refine your messaging by creating a consistent framework that can be easily customized to fit your specific goals across your Canvases.

### Landing pages

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Beta" %}

Braze [landing pages]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/landing_pages) are standalone webpages that can drive your user acquisition and engagement strategy.

### Changes since last viewed

You can view the number of updates to your [Canvases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/testing_canvases/measuring_and_testing_with_canvas_analytics/#changes-since-last-viewed), campaigns, and [segments]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/managing_segments/#changes-since-last-viewed) by other members of your team by referring to the *Changes Since Last Viewed* metric on the respective overview pages (such as the overview page for an [email campaign]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/email_reporting#changes-since-last-viewed)). 

### Troubleshooting webhook and Connected Content requests 

[This article]({{site.baseurl}}/help/help_articles/api/webhook_connected_content_errors) covers how to troubleshoot webhook and Connected Content error codes, including what the errors are and steps to resolve them.

## New Braze partnerships

### Inbox Monster - Analytics

[Inbox Monster]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/analytics/inbox_monster/) is an inbox signals platform that helps enterprise brands land every send. It's an integrated suite of solutions for deliverability, creative rendering, and SMS monitoring, that empowers modern customer relationship managment (CRM) teams and ends the sending scaries.

### SessionM - Loyalty

[SessionM]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/loyalty/sessionm/) is a customer engagement and loyalty platform that provides campaign management features and loyalty management solutions to help marketers drive targeted outreach to increase engagement and profitability.

## AI and ML automation

### Trending item recommendations

In addition to the "AI Personalized" model, the [AI item recommendations]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/sage_ai/recommendations/about_item_recommendations/#trending) feature also includes a recommendation model for "Trending", which features items that had the most positive momentum when it comes to recent user interactions.

## Settings

### Roles

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

[Roles]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/#creating-a-role) allow for more structure by bundling together your individual custom permissions with workspace access controls. This is especially useful if you have many brands or regional workspaces in one dashboard. With roles, you can add dashboard users to the right workspaces and directly grant them the associated permissions. 

### Security event report

We added a complete list of the [security events]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/company_settings/security_settings/#downloading-a-security-event-report) that may appear in your downloaded security report event.

### Message usage report

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

The [message usage dashboard]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/sms_mms_rcs/message_usage/) provides self-service insights into your SMS and WhatsApp credit usage for a comprehensive view of historical and current usage compared against contract allotments. These insights can reduce your confusion and help you make adjustments to prevent overage risks.

## SDK

### Delayed initialization for the Braze Swift SDK

Set up [delayed initialization]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/sdk_initalization/?sdktab=swift) to initialize your Braze Swift SDK asynchronously while ensuring push notification handling is preserved. This can be useful when you need to set up other services before initializing the SDK, such as fetching configuration data from a server, or waiting for user consent.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 32.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#3210)
- [Segment Kotlin SDK 2.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-segment-kotlin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#200)
- [Swift SDK 10.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1010)
- [React Native SDK 12.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1210)
- [Cordova SDK 10.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-cordova-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1000)
    - This version now requires Cordova Android 13.0.0.
    - Refer to the [Cordova release announcement](https://cordova.apache.org/announcements/2024/05/23/cordova-android-13.0.0.html) for a full list of project dependency requirements.- Updated the native Android bridge [from Braze Android SDK 30.3.0 to 32.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v30.3.0...v32.1.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Updated the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 9.2.0 to 10.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/9.2.0...10.1.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
- [Swift SDK 10.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1020)
- [Unity 7.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#700)
    - Updated the native Android bridge [from Braze Android SDK 30.3.0 to 32.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v30.3.0...v32.1.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Updated the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 9.0.0 to 10.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/9.0.0...10.1.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
- [Braze Segment Swift Plugin 4.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-segment-swift/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#400)
    - Updates the Braze Swift SDK bindings to require releases from the `10.2.0+` SemVer denomination.
        - This allows compatibility with any version of the Braze SDK from `10.2.0` up to, but not including, `11.0.0`.
        - Refer to the changelog entry for [`10.0.0`](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1000) for more information on potential breaking changes.
- [Flutter SDK 11.0.0](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog#1100)
    - Updates the native Android bridge [from Braze Android SDK 30.4.0 to 32.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v30.4.0...v32.1.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
        - Changes the behavior of `wipeData()` on Android to retain external subscriptions (like `subscribeToContentCards()`) after being called.
    - Updates the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 9.0.0 to 10.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/9.0.0...10.2.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
- [Swift SDK 10.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1030)
- [Unity 7.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#710)
- [React Native SDK 12.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1220)