_docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/web/in-app_messaging/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
nav_title: Troubleshooting
platform: Web
page_order: 5

page_type: solution
description: "This page includes troubleshooting steps to take for common issues with in-app messaging delivery or display."
channel: in-app messages

---

# Troubleshooting

## Expected In-App Message Did Not Display

Most in-app message issues can be broken down into two main categories: delivery and display. To troubleshoot why an expected in-app message did not display on your device, you should first [ensure that the in-app message was delivered to the device][troubleshooting_iams_11], then [troubleshoot message display][troubleshooting_iams_12].

### Impressions Are Lower Than Expected

Triggers take time to sync to the device on session start, so there can be a race condition if users log an event or purchase right after they start a session. One potential workaround could be changing the campaign to trigger off of session start, then segmenting off of the intended event or purchase. Note that this would deliver the in-app message on the next session start after the event has occurred.

## In-App Message Delivery {#troubleshooting-in-app-message-delivery}

The SDK requests in-app messages from Braze's servers on session start. To check if in-app messages are being delivered to your device, you'll need to ensure that in-app messages are being both requested by the SDK and returned by Braze's servers.

### Check If Messages Are Requested and Returned

1. Add yourself as a [test user][troubleshooting_iams_1] on the Dashboard.
2. Set up an in-app message campaign targeted at your user.
3. Ensure that a [new session][troubleshooting_iams_4] occurs in your application.
4. [Use the Event User Logs][troubleshooting_iams_3] to check that your device is requesting in-app messages on session start. Find the SDK Request associated with your test user's session start event.
  - If your app was meant to request triggered In-App Messages, you should see `trigger` in the Requested Responses field under Response Data.
  - If your app was meant to request Original In-App Messages, you should see  `in_app` in the Requested Responses field under Response Data.
5. Use the [Event User Logs][troubleshooting_iams_3] to check if the correct in-app messages are being returned in the Response Data.

![In-App Message][troubleshooting_iams_5]

### Troubleshoot Messages Not Being Requested

If your in-app messages are not being requested, your app might not be [tracking sessions correctly][troubleshooting_iams_4], as in-app messages are refreshed upon session start. Also be sure that your app is actually starting a session based on your app's session timeout semantics:

![Session Start][troubleshooting_iams_10]

### Troubleshoot Messages Not Being Returned

If your in-app messages are not being returned, you're likely experiencing a campaign targeting issue:

- Your segment does not contain your user.
  - Check your user's [Engagement tab][troubleshooting_iams_6] to see if the correct segment appears under Segments.
- Your user has previously received the in-app message and was not re-eligible to receive it again.
  - Check the [campaign re-eligibility settings][troubleshooting_iams_7] under the **Delivery** step of the **Campaign Composer** and make sure the re-eligibility settings align with your testing setup.
- Your user hit the frequency cap for the campaign.
  - Check the campaign [frequency cap settings][troubleshooting_iams_8] and make sure they align with your testing setup.
- If there was a control group on the campaign, your user may have fallen into the control group.
  - You can check if this has happened by creating a segment with a "Received Campaign Variant" filter, where the campaign variant is set to "Control", and checking if your user fell into that segment.
  - When creating campaigns for integration testing purposes, make sure to opt-out of adding a control group.

## In-App Message Display {#troubleshooting-in-app-message-display}

If your app is successfully requesting and receiving in-app messages but they are not being shown, some device-side logic may be preventing display:

- Triggered in-app messages are rate-limited based on the [minimum time interval between triggers][troubleshooting_iams_9], which defaults to 30 seconds.
- If you have custom in-app message handling through `appboy.subscribeToInAppMessage` or `appboy.subscribeToNewInAppMessages`, check that subscription to ensure it is not affecting in-app message display.

[troubleshooting_iams_1]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/internal_groups_tab/#adding-test-users
[troubleshooting_iams_2]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/event_user_log_tab/#event-user-log-tab
[troubleshooting_iams_3]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/event_user_log_tab/#event-user-log-tab
[troubleshooting_iams_4]: #session-tracking
[troubleshooting_iams_5]:  {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/event_user_log_iams.png %}
[troubleshooting_iams_6]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/using_user_search/#engagement-tab
[troubleshooting_iams_7]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/reeligibility/
[troubleshooting_iams_8]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/testing_and_more/rate-limiting/#frequency-capping
[troubleshooting_iams_9]: #minimum-time-interval-between-triggers
[troubleshooting_iams_10]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/event_user_log_session_start.png %}
[troubleshooting_iams_11]: #troubleshooting-in-app-message-delivery
[troubleshooting_iams_12]: #troubleshooting-in-app-message-display

Commit message:

Adding Title YAML and Tags, restructuring and consolidating subplatform articles

_docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/web/in-app_messaging/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
nav_title: Troubleshooting
article_title: Web In-App Message Troubleshooting
platform: Web
page_order: 5
channel: in-app messages
description: "This page includes troubleshooting steps to take for common issues with in-app messaging delivery or display."

---

# Troubleshooting

## Expected In-App Message Did Not Display

Most in-app message issues can be broken down into two main categories: delivery and display. To troubleshoot why an expected in-app message did not display on your device, you should first [ensure that the in-app message was delivered to the device][troubleshooting_iams_11], then [troubleshoot message display][troubleshooting_iams_12].

### Impressions Are Lower Than Expected

Triggers take time to sync to the device on session start, so there can be a race condition if users log an event or purchase right after they start a session. One potential workaround could be changing the campaign to trigger off of session start, then segmenting off of the intended event or purchase. Note that this would deliver the in-app message on the next session start after the event has occurred.

## In-App Message Delivery {#troubleshooting-in-app-message-delivery}

The SDK requests in-app messages from Braze's servers on session start. To check if in-app messages are being delivered to your device, you'll need to ensure that in-app messages are being both requested by the SDK and returned by Braze's servers.

### Check If Messages Are Requested and Returned

1. Add yourself as a [test user][troubleshooting_iams_1] on the Dashboard.
2. Set up an in-app message campaign targeted at your user.
3. Ensure that a [new session][troubleshooting_iams_4] occurs in your application.
4. [Use the Event User Logs][troubleshooting_iams_3] to check that your device is requesting in-app messages on session start. Find the SDK Request associated with your test user's session start event.
  - If your app was meant to request triggered In-App Messages, you should see `trigger` in the Requested Responses field under Response Data.
  - If your app was meant to request Original In-App Messages, you should see  `in_app` in the Requested Responses field under Response Data.
5. Use the [Event User Logs][troubleshooting_iams_3] to check if the correct in-app messages are being returned in the Response Data.

![In-App Message][troubleshooting_iams_5]

### Troubleshoot Messages Not Being Requested

If your in-app messages are not being requested, your app might not be [tracking sessions correctly][troubleshooting_iams_4], as in-app messages are refreshed upon session start. Also be sure that your app is actually starting a session based on your app's session timeout semantics:

![Session Start][troubleshooting_iams_10]

### Troubleshoot Messages Not Being Returned

If your in-app messages are not being returned, you're likely experiencing a campaign targeting issue:

- Your segment does not contain your user.
  - Check your user's [Engagement tab][troubleshooting_iams_6] to see if the correct segment appears under Segments.
- Your user has previously received the in-app message and was not re-eligible to receive it again.
  - Check the [campaign re-eligibility settings][troubleshooting_iams_7] under the **Delivery** step of the **Campaign Composer** and make sure the re-eligibility settings align with your testing setup.
- Your user hit the frequency cap for the campaign.
  - Check the campaign [frequency cap settings][troubleshooting_iams_8] and make sure they align with your testing setup.
- If there was a control group on the campaign, your user may have fallen into the control group.
  - You can check if this has happened by creating a segment with a "Received Campaign Variant" filter, where the campaign variant is set to "Control", and checking if your user fell into that segment.
  - When creating campaigns for integration testing purposes, make sure to opt-out of adding a control group.

## In-App Message Display {#troubleshooting-in-app-message-display}

If your app is successfully requesting and receiving in-app messages but they are not being shown, some device-side logic may be preventing display:

- Triggered in-app messages are rate-limited based on the [minimum time interval between triggers][troubleshooting_iams_9], which defaults to 30 seconds.
- If you have custom in-app message handling through `appboy.subscribeToInAppMessage` or `appboy.subscribeToNewInAppMessages`, check that subscription to ensure it is not affecting in-app message display.

[troubleshooting_iams_1]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/internal_groups_tab/#adding-test-users
[troubleshooting_iams_2]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/event_user_log_tab/#event-user-log-tab
[troubleshooting_iams_3]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/developer_console/event_user_log_tab/#event-user-log-tab
[troubleshooting_iams_4]: #session-tracking
[troubleshooting_iams_5]:  {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/event_user_log_iams.png %}
[troubleshooting_iams_6]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/using_user_search/#engagement-tab
[troubleshooting_iams_7]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/reeligibility/
[troubleshooting_iams_8]: {{ site.baseurl }}/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/testing_and_more/rate-limiting/#frequency-capping
[troubleshooting_iams_9]: #minimum-time-interval-between-triggers
[troubleshooting_iams_10]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/event_user_log_session_start.png %}
[troubleshooting_iams_11]: #troubleshooting-in-app-message-delivery
[troubleshooting_iams_12]: #troubleshooting-in-app-message-display
