---
nav_title: Delete Users with CDI 
article_title: Delete Users with Cloud Data Ingestion
page_order: 30
page_type: reference
description: "This reference article provides an overview of the process for deleting users with Cloud Data Ingestion."

---

# Delete users with Cloud Data Ingestion

User delete syncs are supported for all available Cloud Data Ingestion data sources. Follow the normal setup steps for the data warehouse you want to connect to, including creating a role that can access the delete table. 

## Source data configuration 

Source tables for user deletes should include one or more user identifier types and an `UPDATED_AT` timestamp. Payload columns are not supported for user delete data.

- `UPDATED_AT` - The time this row was updated in or added to the table. We will only sync rows that have been added or updated since the last sync.
- User identifier columns. Your table may contain one or more user identifier columns. Each row should only contain one identifier (either `external_id`, the combination of `alias_name` and `alias_label`, or `braze_id`. A source table may columns for one, two, or all three identifier types. 
    - `EXTERNAL_ID` - This identifies the user you want to update.  This should match the `external_id` value used in Braze. 
    - `ALIAS_NAME` and `ALIAS_LABEL` - These two columns create a user alias object. `alias_name` should be a unique identifier, and `alias_label` specifies the type of alias. Users may have multiple aliases with different labels but only one `alias_name` per `alias_label`.
    - `BRAZE_ID` - The Braze user identifier. This is generated by the Braze SDK and new users cannot be created using a Braze ID through Cloud Data Ingestion. To create new users, specify an external user ID or user alias. 
- DO NOT include a `PAYLOAD` column - to prevent accidental, permanent, deletes of users, a sync will fail if a payload column is provided in the source table. Any other columns are allowed but will be ignored by Braze.

{% tabs %}
{% tab Snowflake %}
```json
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE BRAZE_CLOUD_PRODUCTION.INGESTION.USERS_DELETES (
     UPDATED_AT TIMESTAMP_NTZ(9) NOT NULL DEFAULT SYSDATE(),
     --at least one of external_id, alias_name and alias_label, or braze_id is required  
     EXTERNAL_ID VARCHAR(16777216),
     --if using user alias, both alias_name and alias_label are required
     ALIAS_LABEL VARCHAR(16777216),
     ALIAS_NAME VARCHAR(16777216),
     --braze_id can only be used to update existing users created through the Braze SDK
     BRAZE_ID VARCHAR(16777216)
);
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab Redshift %}
```json
CREATE TABLE BRAZE_CLOUD_PRODUCTION.INGESTION.USERS_DELETES (
   updated_at timestamptz default sysdate,
   --at least one of external_id, alias_name and alias_label, or braze_id is required
   external_id varchar,
   --if using user alias, both alias_name and alias_label are required
   alias_label varchar,
   alias_name varchar,
   --braze_id can only be used to update existing users created through the Braze SDK
   braze_id varchar
);
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### How it works

With Braze Cloud Data Ingestion, you set up an integration between your data warehouse instance and Braze workspace to sync data on a recurring basis. This sync runs on a schedule you set, and each integration can have a different schedule. Syncs can run as frequently as every 15 minutes or as infrequently as once per month. For customers who need syncs to occur more frequently than 15 minutes, speak with your customer success manager, or consider using REST API calls for real-time data ingestion.

When a sync runs, Braze will directly connect to your data warehouse instance, retrieve all new data from the specified table, and delete the corresponding user profiles on your Braze dashboard. 

{% alert warning %}
Deleting user profiles cannot be undone. It will permanently remove users which may cause discrepancies in your data. Refer to [delete a user profile]({{site.baseurl}}/help/help_articles/api/delete_user/) for more information.
{% endalert %}

<br><br>