_docs/_user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog.md, before:

---
nav_title: Creating a Catalog
article_title: Creating a Catalog
alias: "/catalogs/"
page_order: 1
description: "This reference article covers how to create catalogs that reference non-user data in your Braze campaigns through Liquid."
---

# Creating a catalog

> Creating a catalog involves importing a CSV file of non-user data into Braze. This allows you to then access that information to enrich your messages. You can bring in any type of data into a catalog. This data is typically some sort of metadata from your company such as product information for an eCommerce business, or course information for an education provider.<br><br>This page covers how to prepare and upload a CSV file to create a catalog, how to manage catalogs, and more.

Commons use cases for catalogs include:

- Products
- Services
- Food
- Upcoming events
- Music
- Packages

After this information is imported, you can begin accessing it in messages in a similar way to accessing custom attributes or custom event properties through Liquid.

## Preparing your CSV file

Before creating a catalog, be sure to have your CSV file ready if your preferred catalog creation method is to upload.

{% alert note %}
Need more space to accommodate for your CSV files? Contact your Braze account manager for more information about upgrading your catalogs.
{% endalert %}

### CSV file guidelines

Note these guidelines when creating your CSV file. The first column of the CSV file must be a header of `id`, and each item's `id` must be unique. All other column names must be unique. Additionally, the following limitations apply to catalog CSV files:

- Maximum of 1,000 fields (columns)
- Maximum field (column) name of 250 characters
- Maximum 100&nbsp;MB for all CSV files combined across your company (Free)
- Maximum CSV file size of 2&nbsp;GB (Pro)
- Maximum field value (cell) of 5,000 characters
- Only letters, numbers, hyphens, and underscores for `id` and header values

We also recommend formatting all text in your CSV files as lowercase. Make sure you're encoding your CSV file using the UTF-8 format to upload your CSV file in the next step successfully.

## Selecting your method

To create a catalog, go to **Data Settings** > **Catalogs**.

Select **Create New Catalog**, then choose to either **Upload CSV** or **Create in browser**.

### Method 1: Upload CSV

1. Drag and drop your file to the upload zone, or select **Upload CSV** and choose your file. <br>![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_CSV_upload.png %}){: style="max-width:80%;"} <br><br>
2. Select one of the following data types for each column: boolean, number, string, or time.
<br> ![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_data_type.png %}){: style="max-width:80%;"} <br><br>
3. Give your catalog a name. Keep in mind the following requirements for a catalog name:
- Must be unique
- Maximum of 250 characters
- Can only include numbers, letters, hyphens, and underscores<br><br>
4. (Optional) Add a description for the catalog.
5. Select **Process Catalog** to create the catalog.

{% alert note %}
This data type cannot be edited after you set up your catalog. In addition, a `NULL` value isn't supported in CSV upload and will be treated as a string.
{% endalert %}

You can also use templates in a catalog name. For example, you can use the following:
{% raw %}
```liquid
{% assign language = "content_spanish" %}

{% catalog_items {{language}} fall_campaign %}
{{ items[0].body }}
```
{% endraw %}

{% alert important %}
Your CSV file can be rejected if you go above your [tier](#tiers). 
{% endalert %}

You can also update the CSV file after selecting to create a catalog in the browser. Select **Update Catalog > Upload CSV**, then select whether to update, add, or delete items in your catalog.

### Method 2: Create in the browser

To edit or create catalogs in the browser, you'll need "Manage Catalogs Dashboard" permission.

1. Enter a name for your catalog. Keep in mind the following requirements for your catalog name:
- Must be unique
- Up to 250 characters
- Can only include numbers, letters, hyphens, and underscores <br> ![A catalog named "my_catalog".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/in_browser_catalog.png %}){: style="max-width:80%;"} <br><br>
2. (Optional) Type a description for your catalog.
3. Select the catalog you've just created from the list **Catalogs** page to update your catalog.
4. Select **Update Catalog** > **Add fields** to add your fields. Then, enter the **Field name** and use the dropdown to select the data type. Repeat as needed.<br> ![Two example fields "rating" and "name".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/add_catalog_fields.png %}){: style="max-width:50%;"}<br><br>
5. Select **Update Catalog** > **Add items** to add an item to your catalog by entering the information based on the fields you previously added. Then, select **Save Item** or **Save and Add Another** to continue adding your items. <br> ![Add a catalog item.]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/add_catalog_items.png %}){: style="max-width:50%;"}

You can also upload a CSV file after selecting to create a catalog in the browser.

{% alert note %}
Braze processes time values based on the dashboard timestamp. For example, if a column has a value of "03/13/2024" and your time zone is the Pacific Time Zone, this time would be imported to Braze as "Mar 12, 2024, 5:00 PM".
{% endalert %}

#### Tutorial: Creating a catalog from a CSV file

For this tutorial, we're using a catalog that lists two games, their cost, and an image link.

<style type="text/css">
.tg td{word-break:normal;}
.tg th{word-break:normal;font-size: 14px; font-weight: bold; background-color: #f4f4f7; text-transform: lowercase; color: #212123; font-family: "Sailec W00 Bold",Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;}
.tg .tg-0pky{border-color:inherit;text-align:left;vertical-align:top;word-break:normal}
</style>
<table class="tg">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky">id</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">title</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">price</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">image_link</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1234</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Tales</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">7.49</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">https://picsum.photos/200</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1235</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Regeneration</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">22.49</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">https://picsum.photos/200</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

We'll create the catalog by uploading a CSV file. The data types for `id`, `title`, `price`, and `image_link` are string, string, number, and string, respectively. 

{% alert note %}
This data type cannot be edited after you set up your catalog.
{% endalert %}

![Four catalog column names: "id", "title", "price", "image_link".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_data_type.png %}){: style="max-width:85%;"}

Next, we'll name this catalog "games_catalog" and select the **Process Catalog** button. Then, Braze will check the catalog for any errors before catalog creation.

![A catalog named "games_catalog".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_new_name.png %}){: style="max-width:85%;"}

Note that you won't be able to edit this name after the catalog is created. You can delete a catalog and re-upload an updated version using the same catalog name.

After creating the catalog, you can begin referencing the [catalog in a campaign]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/using_catalogs/).

## Managing catalogs through API

As you build more catalogs, you can also use the [List catalogs endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_management/synchronous/get_list_catalogs/) to return a list of the catalogs in a workspace.

### Managing catalog items

In addition to managing your catalogs, you can also use asynchronous and synchronous endpoints to manage the catalog items. This includes the ability to edit and delete catalog items, and to list catalog item details. 

For example, if you want to edit an individual catalog item, you can use the [`/catalogs/catalog_name/items/item_id` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_items/synchronous/patch_catalog_item/).

## Catalog tiers {#tiers}

The free version of catalogs supports CSV file sizes of up to 100 MB for all CSV files combined across your company, whereas the Catalogs Pro version supports CSV file sizes of up to 2 GB for a single CSV file.

### Catalog storage

{% alert important %}
The package entitlement shown in the Braze dashboard is rounded to the nearest unit for visual purposes; however, you are still entitled to the full entitlement purchased. To request an upgrade for catalog storage, contact your Braze account manager.
{% endalert %}

#### Free version

The storage size for the free version of catalogs is up to 100&nbsp;MB. You can have unlimited items as long as they're under 100&nbsp;MB. 

#### Catalogs Pro

At a company level, the maximum storage for Catalogs Pro is based on the size of catalog data. The storage size options are: 5&nbsp;GB, 10&nbsp;GB, or 15&nbsp;GB. Note that the free version's storage (100&nbsp;MB) is included in each of these plans.

Commit message:

BD-5025: Clarifying supported data types for upload methods

_docs/_user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog.md, after:

---
nav_title: Creating a Catalog
article_title: Creating a Catalog
alias: "/catalogs/"
page_order: 1
description: "This reference article covers how to create catalogs that reference non-user data in your Braze campaigns through Liquid."
---

# Creating a catalog

> Creating a catalog involves importing a CSV file of non-user data into Braze. This allows you to then access that information to enrich your messages. You can bring in any type of data into a catalog. This data is typically some sort of metadata from your company such as product information for an eCommerce business, or course information for an education provider.<br><br>This page covers how to prepare and upload a CSV file to create a catalog, how to manage catalogs, and more.

Commons use cases for catalogs include:

- Products
- Services
- Food
- Upcoming events
- Music
- Packages

After this information is imported, you can begin accessing it in messages in a similar way to accessing custom attributes or custom event properties through Liquid.

## Preparing your CSV file

Before creating a catalog, be sure to have your CSV file ready if your preferred catalog creation method is to upload.

{% alert note %}
Need more space to accommodate for your CSV files? Contact your Braze account manager for more information about upgrading your catalogs.
{% endalert %}

### CSV file guidelines

Note these guidelines when creating your CSV file. The first column of the CSV file must be a header of `id`, and each item's `id` must be unique. All other column names must be unique. Additionally, the following limitations apply to catalog CSV files:

- Maximum of 1,000 fields (columns)
- Maximum field (column) name of 250 characters
- Maximum 100&nbsp;MB for all CSV files combined across your company (Free)
- Maximum CSV file size of 2&nbsp;GB (Pro)
- Maximum field value (cell) of 5,000 characters
- Only letters, numbers, hyphens, and underscores for `id` and header values

We also recommend formatting all text in your CSV files as lowercase. Make sure you're encoding your CSV file using the UTF-8 format to upload your CSV file in the next step successfully.

## Selecting your method

To create a catalog, go to **Data Settings** > **Catalogs**.

Select **Create New Catalog**, then choose to either **Upload CSV** or **Create in browser**.

### Method 1: Upload CSV

Supported data types for uploading a CSV file include: string, integer, float, boolean, or or date/time.

1. Drag and drop your file to the upload zone, or select **Upload CSV** and choose your file. <br>![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_CSV_upload.png %}){: style="max-width:80%;"} <br><br>
2. Select a data type for each column.
<br> ![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_data_type.png %}){: style="max-width:80%;"} <br><br>
3. Give your catalog a name. Keep in mind the following requirements for a catalog name:
- Must be unique
- Maximum of 250 characters
- Can only include numbers, letters, hyphens, and underscores<br><br>
4. (Optional) Add a description for the catalog.
5. Select **Process Catalog** to create the catalog.

{% alert note %}
This data type cannot be edited after you set up your catalog. In addition, a `NULL` value isn't supported in CSV upload and will be treated as a string.
{% endalert %}

You can also use templates in a catalog name. For example, you can use the following:
{% raw %}
```liquid
{% assign language = "content_spanish" %}

{% catalog_items {{language}} fall_campaign %}
{{ items[0].body }}
```
{% endraw %}

{% alert important %}
Your CSV file can be rejected if you go above your [tier](#tiers). 
{% endalert %}

You can also update the CSV file after selecting to create a catalog in the browser. Select **Update Catalog > Upload CSV**, then select whether to update, add, or delete items in your catalog.

### Method 2: Create in the browser

To edit or create catalogs in the browser, you'll need "Manage Catalogs Dashboard" permission.

1. Enter a name for your catalog. Keep in mind the following requirements for your catalog name:
- Must be unique
- Up to 250 characters
- Can only include numbers, letters, hyphens, and underscores <br> ![A catalog named "my_catalog".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/in_browser_catalog.png %}){: style="max-width:80%;"} <br><br>
2. (Optional) Type a description for your catalog.
3. Select the catalog you've just created from the list **Catalogs** page to update your catalog.
4. Select **Update Catalog** > **Add fields** to add your fields. Then, enter the **Field name** and use the dropdown to select the data type. Repeat as needed.<br> ![Two example fields "rating" and "name".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/add_catalog_fields.png %}){: style="max-width:50%;"}<br><br>
5. Select **Update Catalog** > **Add items** to add an item to your catalog by entering the information based on the fields you previously added. Then, select **Save Item** or **Save and Add Another** to continue adding your items. <br> ![Add a catalog item.]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/add_catalog_items.png %}){: style="max-width:50%;"}

You can also upload a CSV file after selecting to create a catalog in the browser.

{% alert note %}
Braze processes time values based on the dashboard timestamp. For example, if a column has a value of "03/13/2024" and your time zone is the Pacific Time Zone, this time would be imported to Braze as "Mar 12, 2024, 5:00 PM".
{% endalert %}

#### Tutorial: Creating a catalog from a CSV file

For this tutorial, we're using a catalog that lists two games, their cost, and an image link.

<style type="text/css">
.tg td{word-break:normal;}
.tg th{word-break:normal;font-size: 14px; font-weight: bold; background-color: #f4f4f7; text-transform: lowercase; color: #212123; font-family: "Sailec W00 Bold",Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;}
.tg .tg-0pky{border-color:inherit;text-align:left;vertical-align:top;word-break:normal}
</style>
<table class="tg">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0pky">id</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">title</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">price</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">image_link</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1234</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Tales</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">7.49</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">https://picsum.photos/200</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0pky">1235</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Regeneration</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">22.49</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">https://picsum.photos/200</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

We'll create the catalog by uploading a CSV file. The data types for `id`, `title`, `price`, and `image_link` are string, string, number, and string, respectively. 

{% alert note %}
This data type cannot be edited after you set up your catalog.
{% endalert %}

![Four catalog column names: "id", "title", "price", "image_link".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_data_type.png %}){: style="max-width:85%;"}

Next, we'll name this catalog "games_catalog" and select the **Process Catalog** button. Then, Braze will check the catalog for any errors before catalog creation.

![A catalog named "games_catalog".]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/catalog_new_name.png %}){: style="max-width:85%;"}

Note that you won't be able to edit this name after the catalog is created. You can delete a catalog and re-upload an updated version using the same catalog name.

After creating the catalog, you can begin referencing the [catalog in a campaign]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/using_catalogs/).

## Managing catalogs through API

As you build more catalogs, you can also use the [List catalogs endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_management/synchronous/get_list_catalogs/) to return a list of the catalogs in a workspace.

Supported data types for using API include: string, integer, float, boolean, or or date/time.

### Managing catalog items

In addition to managing your catalogs, you can also use asynchronous and synchronous endpoints to manage the catalog items. This includes the ability to edit and delete catalog items, and to list catalog item details. 

For example, if you want to edit an individual catalog item, you can use the [`/catalogs/catalog_name/items/item_id` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_items/synchronous/patch_catalog_item/).

## Catalog tiers {#tiers}

The free version of catalogs supports CSV file sizes of up to 100 MB for all CSV files combined across your company, whereas the Catalogs Pro version supports CSV file sizes of up to 2 GB for a single CSV file.

### Catalog storage

{% alert important %}
The package entitlement shown in the Braze dashboard is rounded to the nearest unit for visual purposes; however, you are still entitled to the full entitlement purchased. To request an upgrade for catalog storage, contact your Braze account manager.
{% endalert %}

#### Free version

The storage size for the free version of catalogs is up to 100&nbsp;MB. You can have unlimited items as long as they're under 100&nbsp;MB. 

#### Catalogs Pro

At a company level, the maximum storage for Catalogs Pro is based on the size of catalog data. The storage size options are: 5&nbsp;GB, 10&nbsp;GB, or 15&nbsp;GB. Note that the free version's storage (100&nbsp;MB) is included in each of these plans.
