_docs/_api/objects_filters/connected_audience.md, before:

---
nav_title: "Connected audience filter & object"
article_title: API Connected Audience Object
page_order: 3
page_type: reference
description: "This article explains the different components of the connected audience object and the filters that create it."

---

# Connected audience object

> A connected audience object is a selector that identifies the audience to send the message to.

This object is composed of either a single connected audience filter or several connected audience filters in a logical expression using either `AND` or `OR` operators.

**Multiple filter example:**

```json
{
  "AND":
    [
      Connected Audience Filter,
      {
        "OR" :
          [
            Connected Audience Filter,
            Connected Audience Filter
          ]
      },
      Connected Audience Filter
    ]
}
```

## Connected audience filters

Combining multiple custom attribute filters will create a connected audience filter, which will create a connected audience filter when combined with `AND` and `OR` operators.

### Custom attribute filter

This filter allows you to segment based on a user's custom attribute. These filters contain up to three fields:

```json
{
  "custom_attribute":
    {
      "custom_attribute_name": (String) the name of the custom attribute to filter on,
      "comparison": (String) one of the allowed comparisons to make against the provided value,
      "value": (String, Numeric, Boolean) the value to be compared using the provided comparison
    }
}
```

#### Allowed comparisons by data type

The custom attribute's data type determines the comparisons that are valid for a given filter.

| Custom Attribute Type | Allowed Comparisons |
| ---------------------| --------------- |
| String | `equals`, `not_equal`, `matches_regex`, `does_not_match_regex`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Array | `includes_value`, `does_not_include_value`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Numeric | `equals`, `not_equal`, `greater_than`, `greater_than_or_equal_to`, `less_than`, `less_than_or_equal_to`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Boolean | `equals`, `does_not_equal`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Time | `less_than_x_days_ago`, `greater_than_x_days_ago`, `less_than_x_days_in_the_future`, `greater_than_x_days_in_the_future`, `after`, `before`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

#### Attribute comparison caveats

| Comparison | Additional considerations |
| --- | --- |
| `value` | The `value` is not required when using the `exists` or `does_not_exist` comparisons. `value` must be an ISO 8601 datetime string when using the `before` and `after` comparisons. |
|`matches_regex` | When using the `matches_regex` comparison, the value passed must be a string. To read more about using regular expressions with Braze, refer to [Regular expressions]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/regex/#regex-with-braze) and [Custom attribute data types]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_wide/analytics_overview/#custom-attribute-data-types). |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

#### Custom attribute example

```json
{
  "custom_attribute":
    {
      "custom_attribute_name": "eye_color",
      "comparison": "equals",
      "value": "blue"
    }
}

{
  "custom_attribute":
  {
    "custom_attribute_name": "favorite_foods",
    "comparison": "includes_value",
    "value": "pizza"
  }
}

{
  "custom_attribute":
  {
    "custom_attribute_name": "last_purchase_time",
    "comparison": "less_than_x_days_ago",
    "value": 2
  }
}
```
### Push subscription filter

This filter allows you to segment based on a user's push subscription status.

#### Filter body

```json
{
  "push_subscription_status":
  {
    "comparison": (String) one of the following allowed comparisons,
    "value": (String) one of the following allowed values
  }
}
```

- **Allowed comparisons:** `is`, `is_not`
- **Allowed values:** `opted_in`, `subscribed`, `unsubscribed`

### Email subscription filter

This filter allows you to segment based on a user's email subscription status.

#### Filter body

```json
{
  "email_subscription_status":
  {
    "comparison": (String) one of the following allowed comparisons,
    "value": (String) one of the following allowed values
  }
}
```

- **Allowed comparisons:** `is`, `is_not`
- **Allowed values:** `opted_in`, `subscribed`, `unsubscribed`

### Last used app filter

This filter allows you to segment based on when was the last time the user used the App. These filters contain two fields:

#### Filter body
```json
{
  "last_used_app":
  {
    "comparison": (String) one of the allowed comparisons listed,
    "value": (String) the value to be compared using the provided comparison
  }
}
```

- **Allowed comparisons:** `after`, `before`
- **Allowed values:** datetime (ISO 8601 string)

### Considerations

Connected audiences cannot filter users by default attributes, custom events, segments, or message engagement events. To use these filters, we recommend incorporating them into an audience segment and then specifying that segment in the `segment_id` parameter for the [`/messages/send` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/messaging/send_messages/post_send_messages#request-parameters). When using other endpoints, you'll need to add the segment to the API-triggered campaign or Canvas in the Braze dashboard first.

Commit message:

BD-5266: Edit connected audiences description
Clarified descriptions of connected audience objects and filters for better understanding.

_docs/_api/objects_filters/connected_audience.md, after:

---
nav_title: "Connected audience filter & object"
article_title: API Connected Audience Object
page_order: 3
page_type: reference
description: "This article explains the different components of the connected audience object and the filters that create it."

---

# Connected audience object

> A connected audience object identifies the audience of your message. For example, if you use custom attribute arrays to track every category and TV show that a user has favorited, you can use connected audiences to automatically send a push notification or email to anyone who has favorited a show whenever a new episode is released—without needing to set up a segment for each show.

This object is composed of either a single connected audience filter or several connected audience filters in a logical expression using either `AND` or `OR` operators.

**Multiple filter example:**

```json
{
  "AND":
    [
      Connected Audience Filter,
      {
        "OR" :
          [
            Connected Audience Filter,
            Connected Audience Filter
          ]
      },
      Connected Audience Filter
    ]
}
```

## Connected audience filters

Combining multiple custom attribute filters creates a connected audience filter when combined with `AND` and `OR` operators.

### Custom attribute filter

This filter allows you to segment based on a user's custom attribute. These filters contain up to three fields:

```json
{
  "custom_attribute":
    {
      "custom_attribute_name": (String) the name of the custom attribute to filter on,
      "comparison": (String) one of the allowed comparisons to make against the provided value,
      "value": (String, Numeric, Boolean) the value to be compared using the provided comparison
    }
}
```

#### Allowed comparisons by data type

The custom attribute's data type determines the comparisons that are valid for a given filter.

| Custom Attribute Type | Allowed Comparisons |
| ---------------------| --------------- |
| String | `equals`, `not_equal`, `matches_regex`, `does_not_match_regex`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Array | `includes_value`, `does_not_include_value`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Numeric | `equals`, `not_equal`, `greater_than`, `greater_than_or_equal_to`, `less_than`, `less_than_or_equal_to`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Boolean | `equals`, `does_not_equal`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
| Time | `less_than_x_days_ago`, `greater_than_x_days_ago`, `less_than_x_days_in_the_future`, `greater_than_x_days_in_the_future`, `after`, `before`, `exists`, `does_not_exist` |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

#### Attribute comparison caveats

| Comparison | Additional considerations |
| --- | --- |
| `value` | The `value` is not required when using the `exists` or `does_not_exist` comparisons. `value` must be an ISO 8601 datetime string when using the `before` and `after` comparisons. |
|`matches_regex` | When using the `matches_regex` comparison, the value passed must be a string. To read more about using regular expressions with Braze, refer to [Regular expressions]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/regex/#regex-with-braze) and [Custom attribute data types]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_wide/analytics_overview/#custom-attribute-data-types). |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

#### Custom attribute example

```json
{
  "custom_attribute":
    {
      "custom_attribute_name": "eye_color",
      "comparison": "equals",
      "value": "blue"
    }
}

{
  "custom_attribute":
  {
    "custom_attribute_name": "favorite_foods",
    "comparison": "includes_value",
    "value": "pizza"
  }
}

{
  "custom_attribute":
  {
    "custom_attribute_name": "last_purchase_time",
    "comparison": "less_than_x_days_ago",
    "value": 2
  }
}
```
### Push subscription filter

This filter allows you to segment based on a user's push subscription status.

#### Filter body

```json
{
  "push_subscription_status":
  {
    "comparison": (String) one of the following allowed comparisons,
    "value": (String) one of the following allowed values
  }
}
```

- **Allowed comparisons:** `is`, `is_not`
- **Allowed values:** `opted_in`, `subscribed`, `unsubscribed`

### Email subscription filter

This filter allows you to segment based on a user's email subscription status.

#### Filter body

```json
{
  "email_subscription_status":
  {
    "comparison": (String) one of the following allowed comparisons,
    "value": (String) one of the following allowed values
  }
}
```

- **Allowed comparisons:** `is`, `is_not`
- **Allowed values:** `opted_in`, `subscribed`, `unsubscribed`

### Last used app filter

This filter allows you to segment based on when the user last used the app. These filters contain two fields:

#### Filter body
```json
{
  "last_used_app":
  {
    "comparison": (String) one of the allowed comparisons listed,
    "value": (String) the value to be compared using the provided comparison
  }
}
```

- **Allowed comparisons:** `after`, `before`
- **Allowed values:** datetime (ISO 8601 string)

### Considerations

Connected audiences cannot filter users by default attributes, custom events, segments, or message engagement events. To use these filters, we recommend incorporating them into an audience segment and then specifying that segment in the `segment_id` parameter for the [`/messages/send` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/messaging/send_messages/post_send_messages#request-parameters). When using other endpoints, you'll need to add the segment to the API-triggered campaign or Canvas in the Braze dashboard first.
