_docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/users_and_subscriptions.md, before:

---
nav_title: "Push Enablement and Subscription"
page_order: 3
page_type: reference
description: "This reference article covers the different push subscription states."

channel:
  - push
tool:
  - Docs
  - Dashboard
  - Campaigns
---

# Push Enablement and Subscription

> Push subscription states are filters that allow your users to control whether they receive messages or not. For your user to receive your messages through push, they must be `Subscribed` or `Opted-In`, as well as [Push Enabled](#push-enabled).

![opt-in][56]{: height="50%" width="50%"}

## Push Subscription State

|Opt-in State|Description|
|---|---|
|Subscribed| Default status.|
|Opted-In| A user has explicitly allowed Braze will automatically move a user's opt-in state to “Opted-In”. |
|Unsubscribed| A user explicitly unsubscribed from push through your application UI or other method that your brand provides. By default, Braze Push Campaigns only target users that are "Subscribed" or "Opted-in" for push.|
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}

Subscription states are helpful flags for brands to use when deciding which users to target for push notifications. Brands may provide simple toggles in their applications to make it simple for users to determine their push notification status. This helps prevents users from going into device settings and removing push tokens completely. 

Note that even though users __may not have a Push Token__ (e.g They turn off push tokens at the device level through settings, opting not to receive messages) they still may be subscribed. Being subscribed does not guarantee that a push will be delivered, users must also be Push enabled or Push registered to receive these notifications. This is done in part because users have a single Push Subscription State but may have multiple devices with different levels of push permissions. 

### Two ways to Check a Users Push Subscription State:
![Push Exmaple][3]{: style="float:right;max-width:25%;margin-left:15px;"}
1. __User Profile__: Individual user profiles can be accessed through the Braze dashboard by selecting User Search from the right sidebar. Here, you can look up user profiles by email address, phone number, or external user ID. Once in a user profile, under the Engagement tab, you can view and manually adjust a user's subscription state. <br><br>
2. __Rest API Export__: Individual user profiles can be exported in the JSON format using the users/export/ [segment][segment] or [identifier][identifier] endpoints by using Braze’s REST API. Braze will return a push tokens object, that contains push enablement information per device.

## Push Enablement

A user is "Push Enabled" or "Push Registered" if they have an *active push token* for an app in your app group.

![img][1]{: style="float:right;max-width:50%;margin-left:15px;"}

On the User Engagement tab in the dashboard you will see: **Push Registered For** followed by an **App Name(s)** or followed by **No Apps**. There will be an entry for every device that belongs to the user.

If the device entry's app name is prefixed by `Foreground:`, the app is authorized to receive both foreground push notifications (visible to the user) and background push notifications (not visible to the user) on that device.

On the other hand, if the device entry's app name is prefixed by `Background:`, the app is only authorized to receive background push and can not display user-visible notifications on that device. This usually indicates the user has disabled notifications for the app on that device.
![img2][2]{: style="float:right;max-width:40%;margin-left:15px;margin-top:10px;"}

If a push token is moved a different user on the same device, that first user will no longer be push registered.

## iOS & Android Push Details {#ios-android-details}

{% tabs %}
  {% tab iOS %}
__iOS Push__

__iOS Push States__<br>
Push Enabled - If Braze have a push token for the device<br>
Push Opt-In State - If the user has expressed a preference to send them push notifications.

For iOS, to receive a push token, you must request whether the user would like to receive push. Dependent on the user's response, Braze will adjust the user's opt-in state to opted in or out. Before this, the opt-in state will be `subscribed`. Upon receiving a response, Braze will attempt to register the user for push. Upon successfully receiving a token, we will update the user's push enabled state

__Enabled State__<br>
There exist two enabled states, Foreground push enabled (opted-in) and Background push enabled (opted-out). Regardless of the response to the opt-in prompt, the user will receive a __background__ push token (you must have "Remote Notifications" enabled in __Xcode__) allowing them to be sent silent push. If your app is provisionally authorized, or the user has opted into push, they will receive a __foreground__ push token as well, allowing them to be sent all types of push. Within Braze, we consider a user on iOS who is foreground push enabled to be 'push enabled', either explicitly (app-level) or provisionally (device-level).

__Enabled State and Opt-In__<br>
For iOS, on the subsequent app open, the SDK will detect that push has been disabled and will notify Braze. At this point, Braze will update the push enabled state to disabled. When you attempt to send a push to a user, Braze is already aware of whether we have a token so notifications only get sent to the people who explicitly state they want them. 

__Provisional Authorization and Quiet Push__<br>
In iOS 12, Apple introduced Provisional Authorization, allowing brands the option to send quiet push notifications to their users' Notification Centers _before_ they officially, explicitly opt-in, giving you a chance to demonstrate the value of your messages early. Check out our documentation to learn more about [provisional authorization]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/ios/notification_options/#provisional-push-authentication--quiet-notifications).

On devices running iOS 11 or below, your users _must explicitly opt-in to receive your push messages_. You must request whether the user would like to receive push from you.

  {% endtab %}
  {% tab Android %}
__Android Push__

You do not need to request permission to send push notifications to Android users. As the user has not explicitly requested to receive push, Braze will not automatically [update the user's opt-in state]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/rest_api/user_data/#braze-user-profile-fields). Upon a user’s first session on Android, Braze will automatically request a new token and upon successfully receiving that token, an update to the user’s push enabled state will happen. At this point, a user has push enabled at both the app-level and the device-level.

If the user disables push, Braze will mark them as __foreground__ push disabled and no longer attempt to send them push messages. The filter `Push Enabled` will result in `false` for this user. You may continue to send __background__ (silent) push notifications with the segmenting filter `Background Push Enabled = true`.

On Android, Braze will move a user to be __push disabled__ if:
- A user uninstalls the app from their device.
- Braze receives a bounce when sending to a specific token (sometimes caused by app updates, uninstalls, new push token version or format).
- Push registration fails to FCM (sometimes caused by poor network connections or a failure to connect to or on FCM to return a valid token).
- (For Android SDK v2.2.2+) The user blocks push notifications for the app within their device settings and subsequently log a session.

  {% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Before Android SDK v2.2.2 {#before-android-sdk}

Here are some details you should know if you aren't using our most up to date Android SDK.
- The previous version of the Android SDK does not detect that a user has disabled push and so the user's push enabled state remains enabled. When you attempt to send to a device in this state the push is 'sent' and the device receives the payload but is suppressed by the device so it is not displayed to a user. Braze refers to this as ‘silently failing’.
- The previous version of the Android SDK does not have the `notifications_enabled` parameter and will not return a value for it if user data is called using the Braze REST API.

[1]: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/20304883/25244744/cd16d324-25b6-11e7-9d7c-d37b74690cf8.png
[2]: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/20304883/25244775/ec6e0ae4-25b6-11e7-846d-4bf8f38c3057.png
[identifier]: {{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/export/user_data/post_users_identifier/
[segment]: {{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/export/user_data/post_users_segment/
[56]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/braze_optedin.png %}
[3]: {% image_buster /assets/img/push_example.png %}

Commit message:

BD-931: App redownload push subscription and registration behavior

_docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/users_and_subscriptions.md, after:

---
nav_title: "Push Enablement and Subscription"
page_order: 3
page_type: reference
description: "This reference article covers the different push subscription states."

channel:
  - push
tool:
  - Docs
  - Dashboard
  - Campaigns
---

# Push Enablement and Subscription

> Push subscription states are filters that allow your users to control whether they receive messages or not. For your user to receive your messages through push, they must be `Subscribed` or `Opted-In`, as well as [Push Enabled](#push-enabled).

![opt-in][56]{: height="50%" width="50%"}

## Push Subscription State

|Opt-in State|Description|
|---|---|
|Subscribed| Default status.|
|Opted-In| A user has explicitly allowed Braze will automatically move a user's opt-in state to “Opted-In”. |
|Unsubscribed| A user explicitly unsubscribed from push through your application UI or other method that your brand provides. By default, Braze Push Campaigns only target users that are "Subscribed" or "Opted-in" for push.|
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}

Subscription states are helpful flags for brands to use when deciding which users to target for push notifications. Brands may provide simple toggles in their applications to make it simple for users to determine their push notification status. This helps prevents users from going into device settings and removing push tokens completely. 

Note that even though users __may not have a Push Token__ (e.g They turn off push tokens at the device level through settings, opting not to receive messages) they still may be subscribed. Being subscribed does not guarantee that a push will be delivered, users must also be Push enabled or Push registered to receive these notifications. This is done in part because users have a single Push Subscription State but may have multiple devices with different levels of push permissions. 

### Two ways to Check a Users Push Subscription State:
![Push Exmaple][3]{: style="float:right;max-width:25%;margin-left:15px;"}
1. __User Profile__: Individual user profiles can be accessed through the Braze dashboard by selecting User Search from the right sidebar. Here, you can look up user profiles by email address, phone number, or external user ID. Once in a user profile, under the Engagement tab, you can view and manually adjust a user's subscription state. <br><br>
2. __Rest API Export__: Individual user profiles can be exported in the JSON format using the users/export/ [segment][segment] or [identifier][identifier] endpoints by using Braze’s REST API. Braze will return a push tokens object, that contains push enablement information per device.

## Push Enablement

A user is "Push Enabled" or "Push Registered" if they have an *active push token* for an app in your app group.

![img][1]{: style="float:right;max-width:50%;margin-left:15px;"}

On the User Engagement tab in the dashboard you will see: **Push Registered For** followed by an **App Name(s)** or followed by **No Apps**. There will be an entry for every device that belongs to the user.

If the device entry's app name is prefixed by `Foreground:`, the app is authorized to receive both foreground push notifications (visible to the user) and background push notifications (not visible to the user) on that device.

On the other hand, if the device entry's app name is prefixed by `Background:`, the app is only authorized to receive background push and can not display user-visible notifications on that device. This usually indicates the user has disabled notifications for the app on that device.
![img2][2]{: style="float:right;max-width:40%;margin-left:15px;margin-top:10px;"}

If a push token is moved a different user on the same device, that first user will no longer be push registered.

## iOS & Android Push Details {#ios-android-details}

{% tabs %}
  {% tab iOS %}
__iOS Push__

__iOS Push States__<br>
Push Enabled - If Braze have a push token for the device<br>
Push Opt-In State - If the user has expressed a preference to send them push notifications.

For iOS, to receive a push token, you must request whether the user would like to receive push. Dependent on the user's response, Braze will adjust the user's opt-in state to opted in or out. Before this, the opt-in state will be `subscribed`. Upon receiving a response, Braze will attempt to register the user for push. Upon successfully receiving a token, we will update the user's push enabled state

__Enabled State__<br>
There exist two enabled states, Foreground push enabled (opted-in) and Background push enabled (opted-out). Regardless of the response to the opt-in prompt, the user will receive a __background__ push token (you must have "Remote Notifications" enabled in __Xcode__) allowing them to be sent silent push. If your app is provisionally authorized, or the user has opted into push, they will receive a __foreground__ push token as well, allowing them to be sent all types of push. Within Braze, we consider a user on iOS who is foreground push enabled to be 'push enabled', either explicitly (app-level) or provisionally (device-level).

__Enabled State and Opt-In__<br>
For iOS, on the subsequent app open, the SDK will detect that push has been disabled and will notify Braze. At this point, Braze will update the push enabled state to disabled. When you attempt to send a push to a user, Braze is already aware of whether we have a token so notifications only get sent to the people who explicitly state they want them. 

__Provisional Authorization and Quiet Push__<br>
In iOS 12, Apple introduced Provisional Authorization, allowing brands the option to send quiet push notifications to their users' Notification Centers _before_ they officially, explicitly opt-in, giving you a chance to demonstrate the value of your messages early. Check out our documentation to learn more about [provisional authorization]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/ios/notification_options/#provisional-push-authentication--quiet-notifications).

On devices running iOS 11 or below, your users _must explicitly opt-in to receive your push messages_. You must request whether the user would like to receive push from you.

  {% endtab %}
  {% tab Android %}
__Android Push__

You do not need to request permission to send push notifications to Android users. As the user has not explicitly requested to receive push, Braze will not automatically [update the user's opt-in state]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/rest_api/user_data/#braze-user-profile-fields). Upon a user’s first session on Android, Braze will automatically request a new token and upon successfully receiving that token, an update to the user’s push enabled state will happen. At this point, a user has push enabled at both the app-level and the device-level.

If the user disables push, Braze will mark them as __foreground__ push disabled and no longer attempt to send them push messages. The filter `Push Enabled` will result in `false` for this user. You may continue to send __background__ (silent) push notifications with the segmenting filter `Background Push Enabled = true`.

On Android, Braze will move a user to be __push disabled__ if:
- A user uninstalls the app from their device.
- Braze receives a bounce when sending to a specific token (sometimes caused by app updates, uninstalls, new push token version or format).
- Push registration fails to FCM (sometimes caused by poor network connections or a failure to connect to or on FCM to return a valid token).
- (For Android SDK v2.2.2+) The user blocks push notifications for the app within their device settings and subsequently log a session.

  {% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Before Android SDK v2.2.2 {#before-android-sdk}

Here are some details you should know if you aren't using our most up to date Android SDK.
- The previous version of the Android SDK does not detect that a user has disabled push and so the user's push enabled state remains enabled. When you attempt to send to a device in this state the push is 'sent' and the device receives the payload but is suppressed by the device so it is not displayed to a user. Braze refers to this as ‘silently failing’.
- The previous version of the Android SDK does not have the `notifications_enabled` parameter and will not return a value for it if user data is called using the Braze REST API.

## Frequently Asked Questions

#### What does the lifecycle of a user opted-in for push look like upon deletion, and then redownload of the app?
1. A user opts-in for push, receives some push messaging, and then later deletes the app; this will remove the push consent at the device level. 
2. From here, depending on if the user uninstalls right after a push, and the subsequent push is sent less than 24 hours later, or if the user doesn't have uninstall tracking enabled, then Braze will receive a bounce, and those users will be opted-out of future push messaging.
3. After this, if a user were to reinstall the app but not launch it, Braze will be unable to send a push to the user because push tokens have not been re-granted for your app.
4. If a user were to then re-enable foreground push, it would require a session start to update this information in their user profile to begin receiving push.

[1]: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/20304883/25244744/cd16d324-25b6-11e7-9d7c-d37b74690cf8.png
[2]: https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/20304883/25244775/ec6e0ae4-25b6-11e7-846d-4bf8f38c3057.png
[identifier]: {{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/export/user_data/post_users_identifier/
[segment]: {{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/export/user_data/post_users_segment/
[56]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/braze_optedin.png %}
[3]: {% image_buster /assets/img/push_example.png %}
