_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types.md, before:

---
nav_title: Schedule Your Campaign
layout: dev_guide
page_order: 0
guide_top_header: "Schedule Your Campaign"
guide_top_text: "This section goes over the three different delivery methods Braze offers (Scheduled Delivery, Action-Based Delivery, and API-triggered Delivery) and how to set them up and use them.<br><br>Choosing how your campaign gets delivered is crucial in developing an effective campaign. Thankfully, with Braze you have fine-tuned control over when and how your campaigns get sent. <br><br>Every savvy marketer knows that timing is key, which is why Braze provides multiple scheduling options that will empower you to reach users at precisely the right time. Ample flexibility, however, may cause uncertainty over which type of schedule fits best with your campaign's goals. To help you get the most of Braze's platform, we've created this handy guide that reviews your scheduling options, best practices, and use cases."

guide_featured_title: "Delivery Types"

guide_featured_list:
  - name: Scheduled Delivery
    link: /docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/scheduled_delivery/
    fa_icon: fas fa-chart-line
  - name: Triggered Delivery
    link: /docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/triggered_delivery/
    fa_icon: fas fa-table
  - name: API Triggered Delivery
    link: /docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/api_triggered_delivery/
    fa_icon: fas fa-exclamation

---

Commit message:

Update Campaign and Canvas sections

_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types.md, after:

---
nav_title: Schedule Your Campaign
layout: dev_guide
page_order: 0
guide_top_header: "Schedule Your Campaign"
guide_top_text: "This section goes over the three different delivery methods Braze offers (Scheduled Delivery, Action-Based Delivery, and API-triggered Delivery) and how to set them up and use them.<br><br>Choosing how your campaign gets delivered is crucial in developing an effective campaign. Thankfully, with Braze you have fine-tuned control over when and how your campaigns get sent. <br><br>Every savvy marketer knows that timing is key, which is why Braze provides multiple scheduling options that will empower you to reach users at precisely the right time. Ample flexibility, however, may cause uncertainty over which type of schedule fits best with your campaign's goals. To help you get the most of Braze's platform, we've created this handy guide that reviews your scheduling options, best practices, and use cases."

page_type: landing
description: This section goes over the three different campaign delivery methods (Scheduled Delivery, Action-based Deliver, and API-triggered Delivery) and how to set up and use them.
tool: Campaigns

guide_featured_title: "Delivery Types"

guide_featured_list:
  - name: Scheduled Delivery
    link: /docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/scheduled_delivery/
    fa_icon: fas fa-chart-line
  - name: Triggered Delivery
    link: /docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/triggered_delivery/
    fa_icon: fas fa-table
  - name: API Triggered Delivery
    link: /docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/scheduling_and_organizing/delivery_types/api_triggered_delivery/
    fa_icon: fas fa-exclamation

---
