_docs/_developer_guide/banners/placements.md, before:

---
nav_title: Managing placements
article_title: Managing Banner placements for the Braze SDK
description: "Learn how to create and manage Banner placements in the Braze SDK, including accessing their unique properties and logging impressions."
page_order: 2
platform:
  - iOS
  - Android
  - Web
  - Flutter
  - React Native
---

# Managing Banner placements

> Learn how to create and manage Banner placements in the Braze SDK, including accessing their unique properties and logging impressions. For more general information, see [About Banners]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/banners).

## About placement requests {#requests}

{% multi_lang_include banners/placement_requests.md %}

## Creating a placement

### Prerequisites

These are the minimum SDK versions needed for Banners:

{% sdk_min_versions swift:11.3.0 android:33.1.0 web:5.8.1 reactnative:14.0.0 flutter:13.0.0 %}

{% multi_lang_include banners/creating_placements.md section="developer" %}

### Step 2: Refresh placements in your app {#requestBannersRefresh}

Placements can be requested once per session and will be cached automatically when a user's session expires or when you change identified users using the `changeUser` method. The SDK will not re-fetch placements if you call the refresh method again during the same session. Instead, it will log an error and return an error message to the caller.

{% alert tip %}
Refresh placements as soon as possible to avoid delays in downloading or displaying Banners.
{% endalert %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab Web %}

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Swift %}

```swift
AppDelegate.braze?.banners.requestRefresh(placementIds: ["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"])
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}

```java
ArrayList<String> listOfBanners = new ArrayList<>();
listOfBanners.add("global_banner");
listOfBanners.add("navigation_square_banner");
Braze.getInstance(context).requestBannersRefresh(listOfBanners);
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Kotlin %}

```kotlin
Braze.getInstance(context).requestBannersRefresh(listOf("global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"))
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab React Native %}

```javascript
Braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Unity %}

```csharp
This feature is not currently supported on Unity.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Cordova %}

```javascript
This feature is not currently supported on Cordova.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Flutter %}

```dart
braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Roku %}

```brightscript
This feature is not currently supported on Roku.
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 3: Listen for updates {#subscribeToBannersUpdates}

{% alert tip %}
If you insert banners using the SDK methods in this guide, all analytics events will be handled automatically.
{% endalert %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab Web %}

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

braze.subscribeToBannersUpdates((banners) => {
  console.log(`Banners were updated`);
});

// always refresh after your subscriber function has been registered
braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Swift %}

```swift
let cancellable = brazeClient.braze()?.banners.subscribeToUpdates { banners in
  banners.forEach { placementId, banner in
    print("Received banner: \(banner) with placement ID: \(placementId)")
  }
}
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}

```java
Braze.getInstance(context).subscribeToBannersUpdates(banners -> {
  for (Banner banner : banners.getBanners()) {
    Log.d(TAG, "Received banner: " + banner.getPlacementId());
  }
});
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Kotlin %}

```kotlin
Braze.getInstance(context).subscribeToBannersUpdates { update ->
  for (banner in update.banners) {
    Log.d(TAG, "Received banner: " + banner.placementId)
  }
}
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab React Native %}

```javascript
const bannerCardsSubscription = Braze.addListener(
  Braze.Events.BANNER_CARDS_UPDATED,
  (data) => {
    const banners = data.banners;
    console.log(
      `Received ${banners.length} Banner Cards with placement IDs:`,
      banners.map((banner) => banner.placementId)
    );
  }
);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Unity %}

```csharp
This feature is not currently supported on Unity.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Cordova %}

```javascript
This feature is not currently supported on Cordova.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Flutter %}

```dart
StreamSubscription bannerStreamSubscription = braze.subscribeToBanners((List<BrazeBanner> banners) {
  for (final banner in banners) {
    print("Received banner: " + banner.toString());
  }
});
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Roku %}

```brightscript
This feature is not currently supported on Roku.
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 4: Insert using the placement ID {#insertBanner}

{% alert tip %}
For a complete step-by-step tutorial, check out [Displaying a Banner by Placement ID]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/banners/tutorial_displaying_banners).
{% endalert %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab Web %}

Create a container element for the Banner. Be sure to set its width and height.

```html
<div id="global-banner-container" style="width: 100%; height: 450px;"></div>
```

{% subtabs local %}
{% subtab JavaScript %}
If you're using vanilla JavaScript with the Web Braze SDK, call the [`insertBanner`](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/modules/braze.html#insertbanner) method to replace the inner HTML of the container element.

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

braze.initialize("sdk-api-key", {
  baseUrl: "sdk-base-url",
  allowUserSuppliedJavascript: true, // banners require you to opt-in to user-supplied javascript
});

braze.subscribeToBannersUpdates((banners) => {
  // get this placement's banner. If it's `null` the user did not qualify for one.
  const globalBanner = braze.getBanner("global_banner");
  if (!globalBanner) {
    return;
  }

  // choose where in the DOM you want to insert the banner HTML
  const container = document.getElementById("global-banner-container");

  // Insert the banner which replaces the innerHTML of that container
  braze.insertBanner(globalBanner, container);

  // Special handling if the user is part of a Control Variant
  if (globalBanner.isControl) {
    // hide or collapse the container
    container.style.display = "none";
  }
});

braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```
{% endsubtab %}

{% subtab React %}
If you're using React with the Web Braze SDK, call the [`insertBanner`](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/modules/braze.html#insertbanner) method with a `ref` to replace the inner HTML of the container element.

```tsx
import { useRef } from 'react';
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

export default function App() {
    const bannerRef = useRef<HTMLDivElement>(null);

    useEffect(() => {
       const globalBanner = braze.getBanner("global_banner");
       if (!globalBanner || globalBanner.isControl) {
           // hide the container
       } else {
           // insert the banner to the container node
           braze.insertBanner(globalBanner, bannerRef.current);
       }
    }, []);
    return <div ref={bannerRef}></div>
}
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}

{% alert tip %}
To track impressions, be sure to call `insertBanner` for `isControl`. You can then hide or collapse your container afterwards.
{% endalert %}

{% endtab %}
{% tab Swift %}

```swift
// To get access to the Banner model object:
let globalBanner: Braze.Banner?
AppDelegate.braze?.banners.getBanner(for: "global_banner", { banner in
  self.globalBanner = banner
})

// If you simply want the Banner view, you may initialize a `UIView` with the placement ID:
if let braze = AppDelegate.braze {
  let bannerUIView = BrazeBannerUI.BannerUIView(
    placementId: "global_banner",
    braze: braze,
    // iOS does not perform automatic resizing or visibility changes.
    // Use the `processContentUpdates` parameter to adjust the size and visibility of your Banner according to your use case.
    processContentUpdates: { result in
      switch result {
      case .success(let updates):
        if let height = updates.height {
          // Adjust the visibility and/or height.
        }
      case .failure(let error):
        // Handle the error.
      }
    }
  )
}

// Similarly, if you want a Banner view in SwiftUI, use the corresponding `BannerView` initializer:
if let braze = AppDelegate.braze {
  let bannerView = BrazeBannerUI.BannerView(
    placementId: "global_banner",
    braze: braze,
    // iOS does not perform automatic resizing or visibility changes.
    // Use the `processContentUpdates` parameter to adjust the size and visibility of your Banner according to your use case.
    processContentUpdates: { result in
      switch result {
      case .success(let updates):
        if let height = updates.height {
          // Adjust the visibility and/or height according to your parent controller.
        }
      case .failure(let error):
        // Handle the error.
      }
    }
  )
}
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}
To get the Banner in Java code, use:

```java
Banner globalBanner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("global_banner");
```

You can create Banners in your Android views layout by including this XML:

```xml
<com.braze.ui.banners.BannerView
    android:id="@+id/global_banner_id"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    app:placementId="global_banner" />
```
{% endsubtab %}

{% subtab Kotlin %}
If you're using Android Views, use this XML:

```xml
<com.braze.ui.banners.BannerView
    android:id="@+id/global_banner_id"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    app:placementId="global_banner" />
```

If you're using Jetpack Compose, you can use this:

```kotlin
Banner(placementId = "global_banner")
```

To get the Banner in Kotlin, use:
```kotlin
val banner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("global_banner")
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab React Native %}

If you're using [React Native's New Architecture](https://reactnative.dev/architecture/landing-page), you need to register `BrazeBannerView` as a Fabric component in your `AppDelegate.mm`.

```swift
#ifdef RCT_NEW_ARCH_ENABLED
/// Register the `BrazeBannerView` for use as a Fabric component.
- (NSDictionary<NSString *,Class<RCTComponentViewProtocol>> *)thirdPartyFabricComponents {
  NSMutableDictionary * dictionary = [super thirdPartyFabricComponents].mutableCopy;
  dictionary[@"BrazeBannerView"] = [BrazeBannerView class];
  return dictionary;
}
#endif
```
For the simplest integration, add the following JavaScript XML (JSX) snippet into your view hierarchy, providing just the placement ID.

```javascript
<Braze.BrazeBannerView
  placementID='global_banner'
/>
```

To get the Banner's data model in React Native, or to check for the presence of that placement in your user's cache, use:

```javascript
const banner = await Braze.getBanner("global_banner");
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Unity %}

```csharp
This feature is not currently supported on Unity.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Cordova %}

```javascript
This feature is not currently supported on Cordova.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Flutter %}
For the simplest integration, add the following widget into your view hierarchy, providing just the placement ID.

```dart
BrazeBannerView(
  placementId: "global_banner",
),
To get the Banner's data model in Flutter, use:
```

You can use the `getBanner` method to check for the presence of that placement in your user's cache.

```dart
braze.getBanner("global_banner").then((banner) {
  if (banner == null) {
    // Handle null cases.
  } else {
    print(banner.toString());
  }
});
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Roku %}

```brightscript
This feature is not currently supported on Roku.
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 5: Send a test Banner (optional) {#handling-test-cards}

Before you launch a Banner campaign, you can [send a test Banner]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/banners/testing/) to verify your integration. Test Banners will be stored in a separate in-memory cache and won't persist across app restarts. While no extra setup is needed, your test device must be capable of receiving foreground push notifications so it can display the test.

{% alert note %}
Test Banners are like any other banners, except they're removed at the next app session.
{% endalert %}

## Logging impressions

Braze automatically logs impressions when you use SDK methods to insert a Banner&#8212;so no need to track impressions manually. 

## Dimensions and sizing

Here's what you need to know about Banner dimensions and sizing:

- While the composer allows you to preview Banners in different dimensions, that information isn't saved or sent to the SDK.
- The HTML will take up the full width of the container it's rendered in.
- We recommend making a fixed dimension element and testing those dimensions in composer.

## Accessing properties {#accessing-properties}

To access the properties of a banner, use one of the following methods based on the property's type defined in the dashboard. If the key doesn't match a property of that type, the method returns `null`.

{% tabs local %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}
```java
// Returns the Banner instance
Banner banner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("placement_id_homepage_top");

// Returns the String property
String stringProperty = banner.getStringProperty("color");

// Returns the Boolean property
Boolean booleanProperty = banner.getBooleanProperty("expanded");

// Returns the Number property
Number numberProperty = banner.getNumberProperty("height");

// Returns the Timestamp property (as a Long)
Long timestampProperty = banner.getTimestampProperty("account_start");

// Returns the Image URL property as a String of the URL
String imageProperty = banner.getImageProperty("homepage_icon");

// Returns the JSON object property as a JSONObject
JSONObject jsonObjectProperty = banner.getJSONProperty("footer_settings");
```
{% endsubtab %}

{% subtab Kotlin %}
```kotlin
// Returns the Banner instance
val banner: Banner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("placement_id_homepage_top") ?: return

// Returns the String property
val stringProperty: String? = banner.getStringProperty("color")

// Returns the Boolean property
val booleanProperty: Boolean? = banner.getBooleanProperty("expanded")

// Returns the Number property
val numberProperty: Number? = banner.getNumberProperty("height")

// Returns the Timestamp property (as a Long)
val timestampProperty: Long? = banner.getTimestampProperty("account_start")

// Returns the Image URL property as a String of the URL
val imageProperty: String? = banner.getImageProperty("homepage_icon")

// Returns the JSON object property as a JSONObject
val jsonObjectProperty: JSONObject? = banner.getJSONProperty("footer_settings")
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}

{% tab Swift %}
```swift
// Passes the specified banner to the completion handler
AppDelegate.braze?.banners.getBanner(for: "placement_id_homepage_top") { banner in
  // Returns the string property
  let stringProperty: String? = banner.stringProperty(key: "color")

  // Returns the boolean property
  let booleanProperty: Bool? = banner.boolProperty(key: "expanded")

  // Returns the number property as a double
  let numberProperty: Double? = banner.numberProperty(key: "height")

  // Returns the Unix UTC millisecond timestamp property as an integer
  let timestampProperty: Int? = banner.timestampProperty(key: "account_start")

  // Returns the image property as a String of the image URL
  let imageProperty: String? = banner.imageProperty(key: "homepage_icon")

  // Returns the JSON object property as a [String: Any] dictionary
  let jsonObjectProperty: [String: Any]? = banner.jsonObjectProperty(key: "footer_settings")
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

add benefits/use case to accessing props

_docs/_developer_guide/banners/placements.md, after:

---
nav_title: Managing placements
article_title: Managing Banner placements for the Braze SDK
description: "Learn how to create and manage Banner placements in the Braze SDK, including accessing their unique properties and logging impressions."
page_order: 2
platform:
  - iOS
  - Android
  - Web
  - Flutter
  - React Native
---

# Managing Banner placements

> Learn how to create and manage Banner placements in the Braze SDK, including accessing their unique properties and logging impressions. For more general information, see [About Banners]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/banners).

## About placement requests {#requests}

{% multi_lang_include banners/placement_requests.md %}

## Creating a placement

### Prerequisites

These are the minimum SDK versions needed for Banners:

{% sdk_min_versions swift:11.3.0 android:33.1.0 web:5.8.1 reactnative:14.0.0 flutter:13.0.0 %}

{% multi_lang_include banners/creating_placements.md section="developer" %}

### Step 2: Refresh placements in your app {#requestBannersRefresh}

Placements can be requested once per session and will be cached automatically when a user's session expires or when you change identified users using the `changeUser` method. The SDK will not re-fetch placements if you call the refresh method again during the same session. Instead, it will log an error and return an error message to the caller.

{% alert tip %}
Refresh placements as soon as possible to avoid delays in downloading or displaying Banners.
{% endalert %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab Web %}

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Swift %}

```swift
AppDelegate.braze?.banners.requestRefresh(placementIds: ["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"])
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}

```java
ArrayList<String> listOfBanners = new ArrayList<>();
listOfBanners.add("global_banner");
listOfBanners.add("navigation_square_banner");
Braze.getInstance(context).requestBannersRefresh(listOfBanners);
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Kotlin %}

```kotlin
Braze.getInstance(context).requestBannersRefresh(listOf("global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"))
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab React Native %}

```javascript
Braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Unity %}

```csharp
This feature is not currently supported on Unity.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Cordova %}

```javascript
This feature is not currently supported on Cordova.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Flutter %}

```dart
braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Roku %}

```brightscript
This feature is not currently supported on Roku.
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 3: Listen for updates {#subscribeToBannersUpdates}

{% alert tip %}
If you insert banners using the SDK methods in this guide, all analytics events will be handled automatically.
{% endalert %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab Web %}

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

braze.subscribeToBannersUpdates((banners) => {
  console.log(`Banners were updated`);
});

// always refresh after your subscriber function has been registered
braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Swift %}

```swift
let cancellable = brazeClient.braze()?.banners.subscribeToUpdates { banners in
  banners.forEach { placementId, banner in
    print("Received banner: \(banner) with placement ID: \(placementId)")
  }
}
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}

```java
Braze.getInstance(context).subscribeToBannersUpdates(banners -> {
  for (Banner banner : banners.getBanners()) {
    Log.d(TAG, "Received banner: " + banner.getPlacementId());
  }
});
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Kotlin %}

```kotlin
Braze.getInstance(context).subscribeToBannersUpdates { update ->
  for (banner in update.banners) {
    Log.d(TAG, "Received banner: " + banner.placementId)
  }
}
```

{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab React Native %}

```javascript
const bannerCardsSubscription = Braze.addListener(
  Braze.Events.BANNER_CARDS_UPDATED,
  (data) => {
    const banners = data.banners;
    console.log(
      `Received ${banners.length} Banner Cards with placement IDs:`,
      banners.map((banner) => banner.placementId)
    );
  }
);
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Unity %}

```csharp
This feature is not currently supported on Unity.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Cordova %}

```javascript
This feature is not currently supported on Cordova.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Flutter %}

```dart
StreamSubscription bannerStreamSubscription = braze.subscribeToBanners((List<BrazeBanner> banners) {
  for (final banner in banners) {
    print("Received banner: " + banner.toString());
  }
});
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Roku %}

```brightscript
This feature is not currently supported on Roku.
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 4: Insert using the placement ID {#insertBanner}

{% alert tip %}
For a complete step-by-step tutorial, check out [Displaying a Banner by Placement ID]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/banners/tutorial_displaying_banners).
{% endalert %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab Web %}

Create a container element for the Banner. Be sure to set its width and height.

```html
<div id="global-banner-container" style="width: 100%; height: 450px;"></div>
```

{% subtabs local %}
{% subtab JavaScript %}
If you're using vanilla JavaScript with the Web Braze SDK, call the [`insertBanner`](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/modules/braze.html#insertbanner) method to replace the inner HTML of the container element.

```javascript
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

braze.initialize("sdk-api-key", {
  baseUrl: "sdk-base-url",
  allowUserSuppliedJavascript: true, // banners require you to opt-in to user-supplied javascript
});

braze.subscribeToBannersUpdates((banners) => {
  // get this placement's banner. If it's `null` the user did not qualify for one.
  const globalBanner = braze.getBanner("global_banner");
  if (!globalBanner) {
    return;
  }

  // choose where in the DOM you want to insert the banner HTML
  const container = document.getElementById("global-banner-container");

  // Insert the banner which replaces the innerHTML of that container
  braze.insertBanner(globalBanner, container);

  // Special handling if the user is part of a Control Variant
  if (globalBanner.isControl) {
    // hide or collapse the container
    container.style.display = "none";
  }
});

braze.requestBannersRefresh(["global_banner", "navigation_square_banner"]);
```
{% endsubtab %}

{% subtab React %}
If you're using React with the Web Braze SDK, call the [`insertBanner`](https://js.appboycdn.com/web-sdk/latest/doc/modules/braze.html#insertbanner) method with a `ref` to replace the inner HTML of the container element.

```tsx
import { useRef } from 'react';
import * as braze from "@braze/web-sdk";

export default function App() {
    const bannerRef = useRef<HTMLDivElement>(null);

    useEffect(() => {
       const globalBanner = braze.getBanner("global_banner");
       if (!globalBanner || globalBanner.isControl) {
           // hide the container
       } else {
           // insert the banner to the container node
           braze.insertBanner(globalBanner, bannerRef.current);
       }
    }, []);
    return <div ref={bannerRef}></div>
}
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}

{% alert tip %}
To track impressions, be sure to call `insertBanner` for `isControl`. You can then hide or collapse your container afterwards.
{% endalert %}

{% endtab %}
{% tab Swift %}

```swift
// To get access to the Banner model object:
let globalBanner: Braze.Banner?
AppDelegate.braze?.banners.getBanner(for: "global_banner", { banner in
  self.globalBanner = banner
})

// If you simply want the Banner view, you may initialize a `UIView` with the placement ID:
if let braze = AppDelegate.braze {
  let bannerUIView = BrazeBannerUI.BannerUIView(
    placementId: "global_banner",
    braze: braze,
    // iOS does not perform automatic resizing or visibility changes.
    // Use the `processContentUpdates` parameter to adjust the size and visibility of your Banner according to your use case.
    processContentUpdates: { result in
      switch result {
      case .success(let updates):
        if let height = updates.height {
          // Adjust the visibility and/or height.
        }
      case .failure(let error):
        // Handle the error.
      }
    }
  )
}

// Similarly, if you want a Banner view in SwiftUI, use the corresponding `BannerView` initializer:
if let braze = AppDelegate.braze {
  let bannerView = BrazeBannerUI.BannerView(
    placementId: "global_banner",
    braze: braze,
    // iOS does not perform automatic resizing or visibility changes.
    // Use the `processContentUpdates` parameter to adjust the size and visibility of your Banner according to your use case.
    processContentUpdates: { result in
      switch result {
      case .success(let updates):
        if let height = updates.height {
          // Adjust the visibility and/or height according to your parent controller.
        }
      case .failure(let error):
        // Handle the error.
      }
    }
  )
}
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}
To get the Banner in Java code, use:

```java
Banner globalBanner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("global_banner");
```

You can create Banners in your Android views layout by including this XML:

```xml
<com.braze.ui.banners.BannerView
    android:id="@+id/global_banner_id"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    app:placementId="global_banner" />
```
{% endsubtab %}

{% subtab Kotlin %}
If you're using Android Views, use this XML:

```xml
<com.braze.ui.banners.BannerView
    android:id="@+id/global_banner_id"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    app:placementId="global_banner" />
```

If you're using Jetpack Compose, you can use this:

```kotlin
Banner(placementId = "global_banner")
```

To get the Banner in Kotlin, use:
```kotlin
val banner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("global_banner")
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab React Native %}

If you're using [React Native's New Architecture](https://reactnative.dev/architecture/landing-page), you need to register `BrazeBannerView` as a Fabric component in your `AppDelegate.mm`.

```swift
#ifdef RCT_NEW_ARCH_ENABLED
/// Register the `BrazeBannerView` for use as a Fabric component.
- (NSDictionary<NSString *,Class<RCTComponentViewProtocol>> *)thirdPartyFabricComponents {
  NSMutableDictionary * dictionary = [super thirdPartyFabricComponents].mutableCopy;
  dictionary[@"BrazeBannerView"] = [BrazeBannerView class];
  return dictionary;
}
#endif
```
For the simplest integration, add the following JavaScript XML (JSX) snippet into your view hierarchy, providing just the placement ID.

```javascript
<Braze.BrazeBannerView
  placementID='global_banner'
/>
```

To get the Banner's data model in React Native, or to check for the presence of that placement in your user's cache, use:

```javascript
const banner = await Braze.getBanner("global_banner");
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Unity %}

```csharp
This feature is not currently supported on Unity.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Cordova %}

```javascript
This feature is not currently supported on Cordova.
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Flutter %}
For the simplest integration, add the following widget into your view hierarchy, providing just the placement ID.

```dart
BrazeBannerView(
  placementId: "global_banner",
),
To get the Banner's data model in Flutter, use:
```

You can use the `getBanner` method to check for the presence of that placement in your user's cache.

```dart
braze.getBanner("global_banner").then((banner) {
  if (banner == null) {
    // Handle null cases.
  } else {
    print(banner.toString());
  }
});
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Roku %}

```brightscript
This feature is not currently supported on Roku.
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Step 5: Send a test Banner (optional) {#handling-test-cards}

Before you launch a Banner campaign, you can [send a test Banner]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/banners/testing/) to verify your integration. Test Banners will be stored in a separate in-memory cache and won't persist across app restarts. While no extra setup is needed, your test device must be capable of receiving foreground push notifications so it can display the test.

{% alert note %}
Test Banners are like any other banners, except they're removed at the next app session.
{% endalert %}

## Logging impressions

Braze automatically logs impressions when you use SDK methods to insert a Banner&#8212;so no need to track impressions manually. 

## Dimensions and sizing

Here's what you need to know about Banner dimensions and sizing:

- While the composer allows you to preview Banners in different dimensions, that information isn't saved or sent to the SDK.
- The HTML will take up the full width of the container it's rendered in.
- We recommend making a fixed dimension element and testing those dimensions in composer.

## Accessing properties {#accessing-properties}

Accessing properties lets you retrieve key–value data from a Banner placement, which you can use to modify your app’s behavior or appearance. For example:

- Change layout or styling based on a property like `color` or `expanded`.
- Use metadata such as a `timestamp` or JSON object to trigger custom behavior.
- Detect control variants and decide whether to hide a container or show alternate content.

To access the properties of a banner, use one of the following methods based on the property's type defined in the dashboard. If the key doesn't match a property of that type, the method returns `null`.

{% tabs local %}
{% tab Android %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Java %}
```java
// Returns the Banner instance
Banner banner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("placement_id_homepage_top");

// Returns the String property
String stringProperty = banner.getStringProperty("color");

// Returns the Boolean property
Boolean booleanProperty = banner.getBooleanProperty("expanded");

// Returns the Number property
Number numberProperty = banner.getNumberProperty("height");

// Returns the Timestamp property (as a Long)
Long timestampProperty = banner.getTimestampProperty("account_start");

// Returns the Image URL property as a String of the URL
String imageProperty = banner.getImageProperty("homepage_icon");

// Returns the JSON object property as a JSONObject
JSONObject jsonObjectProperty = banner.getJSONProperty("footer_settings");
```
{% endsubtab %}

{% subtab Kotlin %}
```kotlin
// Returns the Banner instance
val banner: Banner = Braze.getInstance(context).getBanner("placement_id_homepage_top") ?: return

// Returns the String property
val stringProperty: String? = banner.getStringProperty("color")

// Returns the Boolean property
val booleanProperty: Boolean? = banner.getBooleanProperty("expanded")

// Returns the Number property
val numberProperty: Number? = banner.getNumberProperty("height")

// Returns the Timestamp property (as a Long)
val timestampProperty: Long? = banner.getTimestampProperty("account_start")

// Returns the Image URL property as a String of the URL
val imageProperty: String? = banner.getImageProperty("homepage_icon")

// Returns the JSON object property as a JSONObject
val jsonObjectProperty: JSONObject? = banner.getJSONProperty("footer_settings")
```
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}

{% tab Swift %}
```swift
// Passes the specified banner to the completion handler
AppDelegate.braze?.banners.getBanner(for: "placement_id_homepage_top") { banner in
  // Returns the string property
  let stringProperty: String? = banner.stringProperty(key: "color")

  // Returns the boolean property
  let booleanProperty: Bool? = banner.boolProperty(key: "expanded")

  // Returns the number property as a double
  let numberProperty: Double? = banner.numberProperty(key: "height")

  // Returns the Unix UTC millisecond timestamp property as an integer
  let timestampProperty: Int? = banner.timestampProperty(key: "account_start")

  // Returns the image property as a String of the image URL
  let imageProperty: String? = banner.imageProperty(key: "homepage_icon")

  // Returns the JSON object property as a [String: Any] dictionary
  let jsonObjectProperty: [String: Any]? = banner.jsonObjectProperty(key: "footer_settings")
}
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
