_docs/_help/help_articles/segments/segment_showing_0_users.md, before:

---
nav_title: Segment is Showing No Users
page_order: 0

page_type: solution
description: "This help article walks you through troubleshooting steps if zero users are showing in your segment, but you anticipate more."
tool: Segments
noindex: true
---
# Segment Is Showing No Users

There are two possible solutions when you are seeing `0` users, but you anticipated more:
* [Calculate Exact Statistics](#calculate-exact-statistics)
* [Verify Data Transfer](#verify-data-transfer)

## Calculate Exact Statistics

The Segment statistics could be providing an estimate. The estimation is calculated based on a random sample with a 95% confidence interval that the result is within `+/- 1%`. The smaller your user base is, the more likely it is that the size of your segment is a rough estimate. Click “Calculate Exact Statistics” on the Segment page. This will calculate the exact number of users in your segment.

![Calculate Exact Statistics][28]


## Verify Data Transfer

It is possible that the data you are filtering on is not being sent to Braze. To check which custom events are being sent to Braze, click **Custom Events** on the left hand menu in the **Data** section. Select the custom event along with the specific dates and app to see what data is actually being transferred to Braze. If you notice that `0` data is being sent to Braze, the next step is to evaluate how you are sending the events to Braze.

![Data Transfer Verification][29]

{% alert important %} 
The data that you see in the Braze dashboard may not have the same syntax as what you are sending to Braze. Ensure that these two match exactly.
{% endalert %}

Still need help? [Open a support ticket]({{site.baseurl}}/support_contact/).

[28]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/trouble8.png %}
[29]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/trouble9.png %}

Commit message:

Add article_title tag and remove noindex tag

_docs/_help/help_articles/segments/segment_showing_0_users.md, after:

---
nav_title: Missing Users in Segment
article_title: Missing Users in Segment
page_order: 0

page_type: solution
description: "This help article walks you through troubleshooting steps if zero users are showing in your segment, but you anticipate more."
tool: Segments
---
# Segment Is Showing No Users

There are two possible solutions when you are seeing `0` users, but you anticipated more:
* [Calculate Exact Statistics](#calculate-exact-statistics)
* [Verify Data Transfer](#verify-data-transfer)

## Calculate Exact Statistics

The Segment statistics could be providing an estimate. The estimation is calculated based on a random sample with a 95% confidence interval that the result is within `+/- 1%`. The smaller your user base is, the more likely it is that the size of your segment is a rough estimate. Click “Calculate Exact Statistics” on the Segment page. This will calculate the exact number of users in your segment.

![Calculate Exact Statistics][28]


## Verify Data Transfer

It is possible that the data you are filtering on is not being sent to Braze. To check which custom events are being sent to Braze, click **Custom Events** on the left hand menu in the **Data** section. Select the custom event along with the specific dates and app to see what data is actually being transferred to Braze. If you notice that `0` data is being sent to Braze, the next step is to evaluate how you are sending the events to Braze.

![Data Transfer Verification][29]

{% alert important %} 
The data that you see in the Braze dashboard may not have the same syntax as what you are sending to Braze. Ensure that these two match exactly.
{% endalert %}

Still need help? [Open a support ticket]({{site.baseurl}}/support_contact/).

[28]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/trouble8.png %}
[29]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/trouble9.png %}
