---
nav_title: January 10, 2023
page_order: 12
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 1/10/2023."
---

# January 10, 2023 release

## User Update component for Canvas Flow

The [User Update]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/user_update/) component allows you to update a user's attributes, events, and purchases in a JSON composer, so there's no need to include sensitive information like API keys. 

## Setting subscription groups via API

When creating new users via the [`/users/track` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_track/), you can set subscription groups within the user attributes object, which allows you to create a user and set the subscription group state in one API call.

## Conversions dashboard early access

The [conversions dashboard]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/analytics/dashboard/conversions_dashboard/) allows you to analyze conversions across campaigns, Canvases, and channels, using different attribution methods. You can specifically track these attribution methods:

- **Open conversions:** Conversions that occurred after a user opened the message
- **Click conversions:** Conversions that occurred after a user clicked the message
- **Received conversions:** Conversions that occurred after a user receved the message
- **Last-click conversions:** Conversions that occurred after a user clicked the message if the message was the most recent one the user clicked (This feature is currently being tested on a small subset of early access customers)

This feature is currently in early access. If you're interested in participating in the early access, reach out to your customer success manager.

## Canvas exit events for Braze Currents

You can now track when your users exit a Canvas by either performing an event or by matching an audience. Check out the [Message Engagement Events]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/braze_currents/event_glossary/message_engagement_events/) section in the Currents Event Glossary for more information.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Web SDK 4.5.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [AppboyKit iOS SDK 4.5.2](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/releases/tag/4.5.2)
- [Swift SDK 5.8.0-5.8.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#580)
	- Renames the `BrazeLocation` class to `BrazeLocationProvider` to avoid shadowing the module of the same name.
- [Flutter SDK 3.0.1](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog)
- [Android SDK 24.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
	- Location and geofence functionality has moved to a new module called `com.braze:android-sdk-location`.
	- Appboy classes and files have been wholesale moved to Braze.
	- Changed the default behavior of `DefaultContentCardsUpdateHandler` to use the creation time instead of the last update time when sorting Content Cards.
	- Removed BrazeUser.setFacebookData() and BrazeUser.setTwitterData().
