---
nav_title: May 2, 2023
page_order: 8
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 5/2/2023."
---

# May 2, 2023 release

## Redesigned Braze UI/UX

_Generally available on May 16, 2023_

Save time and find exactly what you need with the newly redesigned UI/UX and information architecture. Quickly navigate throughout the platform, complete tasks, and discover new features with ease. To make this transition easier for you and your team, check out our dedicated [navigation guide]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/navigation/) to learn what has changed and what you can expect next.

## Query builder

With the [query builder]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/analytics/query_builder/), you can generate reports using Braze data in Snowflake. The query builder comes with pre-built SQL query templates to get you started, or you can write your own custom SQL queries to unlock even more insights.

## Canvas version history

[Version history]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/managing_canvases/canvas_version_history/) allows you to view and access Canvas analytics and the user journeys for any previous version of your Canvas. Referencing your Canvas version history can be especially helpful to maintain a record of the evolution of a Canvas.

## Incremental refresh for SQL Segments

You can now create [SQL Segment Extensions]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/sql_segments/) that use incremental refresh, which only refreshes the last 2 days worth of data. This is more cost-efficient and uses up fewer SQL Segment credits each time the segment membership refreshes. Unlike full refresh extensions, you can set incremental refresh extensions to automatically regenerate membership daily.

## Deliverability Center for email

The [Deliverability Center]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/analytics/deliverability_center#deliverability-center) provides more insight into your email performance by supporting the use of Gmail Postmaster Tools to track data on emails sent and gather data about your sending domain.

{% alert important %}
The Deliverability Center is currently in early access. Contact your Braze customer success manager if you’re interested in participating in the early access.
{% endalert %}

## Update for catalog limitations

As of May 1, 2023, there have been updates for [catalogs storage limits]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog/#limits). To request an upgrade for catalogs storage, contact your Braze account manager.

## New API and SDK endpoints article

Braze manages a number of different instances for our dashboard, SDK, and REST endpoints, which we call "clusters." Check out [API and SDK endpoints]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/sdk_endpoints) for a list of dashboard URLs, API endpoints, and SDK endpoints for available Braze instances.

## Liquid FAQ

We’ve answered some [frequently asked questions for Liquid]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/faq/). 

## iOS SDK deprecation - Swift

Braze's legacy iOS SDK is being deprecated in favor of the new Swift SDK. This brings improved performance, new features, and many improvements—including [new documentation](https://www.braze.com/docs/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/swift/initial_sdk_setup/overview)!

Looking to upgrade? Check out our [migration guide](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/documentation/braze/appboy-migration-guide/) for details.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [React Native SDK v4.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Android SDK 25.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Swift SDK 5.14.0-6.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#600)
- [Flutter SDK 5.0.0](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog)
- [Unity 4.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Segment Kotlin 1.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-segment-kotlin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
