---
nav_title: August 22, 2023
page_order: 4
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 08/22/23."
---

# August 22, 2023 release

## Shopify catalogs 

Shopify catalogs allow you to import your products from your Shopify store into a Braze catalog, automating the process to bring in product data for deeper personalization of your messages. You can enrich your abandoned cart, order confirmation, and more with the most up-to-date product details and information.

## Merging users by email

You can now [merge users by email]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_users_merge/#merging-users-by-email) using the `/users/merge` endpoint. 

{% alert important %}
Merging users by email and using `/users/merge` with mismatched identifiers are currently in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you’re interested in participating in the early access.
{% endalert %}

## Best practices for WhatsApp

Before sending your WhatsApp messages, you can reference suggested [best practices]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/whatsapp_best_practices/) to maintain a high phone quality rating, avoid blocks and reports, and opt-in and out-out users.

## Domain reputation

In the Deliverability Center, you can now view and monitor your [domain reputation]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/analytics/deliverability_center#domain-reputation) to help avoid being filtered into a spam folder.

## Customization guides 

We're excited to introduce a reorganization of the Developer Portal. Now, customization options for our SDKs, starting with [Content Cards]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/content_cards/), are consolidated into dedicated customization guides. This change streamlines your access to detailed instructions, making it easier to tailor experiences to your specific needs.

## Card creation in Canvas

You can choose when Braze evaluates audience eligibility and personalization for new Content Card campaigns and Canvas steps by specifying when the card is created.

{% alert important %}
Control over card creation in Canvas steps is in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you're interested in participating in the early access.
{% endalert %}

## Copying to workspaces

[Copying campaigns across a workspace]({{site.baseurl}}/copying_to_workspaces/) allows you to get a jumpstart on your message composition by starting with a copy of a campaign in a different workspace. This copy will remain as a draft until you edit and launch, helping you keep and build off your successful messaging strategies.

{% alert important %}
Copying campaigns across workspaces is currently in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you’re interested in participating in this early access.
{% endalert %}

## Push Max

[Push Max]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/android/push_max/) amplifies Android push notifications by tracking failed push notifications and resending the push when the user is more likely to receive it. Learn about Push Max and how you can use this feature to potentially improve the deliverability of Android push notifications to [Chinese OEM devices]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/push/best_practices/chinese_push_deliverability/).

{% alert important %}
Push Max is currently in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you're interested in participating in the early access.
{% endalert %}

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Xamarin SDK 2.0.0–2.0.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-xamarin-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Updated the Android binding to use Braze Android SDK 26.3.2
- [Flutter SDK 6.0.1](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog)
    - Updated the native Android bridge from Braze Android SDK 26.1.0 to 26.1.1.
- [Android SDK 27.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Swift SDK 6.5.0–6.6.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Fixed an issue in HTML in-app messages where custom event and purchase properties would always convert values for `1` and `0` to become `true` and `false`, respectively. These property values will now respect their original form in the HTML.
- [React Native SDK 6.0.0–6.0.2](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Updated the native Android bridge from Braze Android SDK 26.3.1 to 26.3.2.
- [Cordova SDK 6.0.0-6.0.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-cordova-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Updated the native Android version from Braze Android SDK 26.3.1 to 26.3.2
- [Expo Plugin 1.1.2](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/blob/1.1.2/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Unity 4.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Segment Kotlin 1.4.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-segment-kotlin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Segment-Android 15.0.1](https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-segment-android/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)