_docs/_api/endpoints/email/get_query_unsubscribed_email_addresses.md, before:

---
nav_title: "GET: Query List of Unsubscribed Email Addresses"
page_order: 1

layout: api_page

page_type: reference
platform: API
channel: Email
tool:
  - Canvas
  - Campaigns

description: "This article outlines the usage of and parameters for using the Get Email Unsubscribes Braze endpoint."
---
{% api %}
# Retrieve List of or Query Email Unsubscribes
{% apimethod get %}
/email/unsubscribes
{% endapimethod %}

Use the /email/unsubscribes endpoint to return emails that have unsubscribed during the time period from `start_date` to `end_date`. You can use this endpoint to set up a bi-directional sync between Braze and other email systems or your own database.

{% apiref postman %}https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/4689407/SVYrsdsG?version=latest#d2966b81-188a-407b-ba7e-e6c252c44b4a {% endapiref %}

## Request Parameters

You must provide an `end_date`, as well as either an `email` or a `start_date` .

| Parameter | Required | Data Type | Description |
| ----------|-----------| ---------|------ |
| `start_date` | Optional* | String in YYYY-MM-DD format| Start date of the range to retrieve unsubscribes, must be earlier than end_date. This is treated as midnight in UTC time by the API. |
| `end_date` | Optional* | String in YYYY-MM-DD format | End date of the range to retrieve unsubscribes. This is treated as midnight in UTC time by the API. |
| `limit` | Optional | Integer | Optional field to limit the number of results returned. Defaults to 100, maximum is 500. |
| `offset` | Optional | Integer | Optional beginning point in the list to retrieve from |
| `sort_direction` | Optional | String | Pass in the value `asc` to sort unsubscribes from oldest to newest. Pass in `desc` to sort from newest to oldest. If sort_direction is not included, the default order is newest to oldest. |
| `email` | Optional* | String | If provided, we will return whether or not the user has unsubscribed |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3  .reset-td-br-4}

If your date range has more than `limit` number of unsubscribes, you will need to make multiple API calls, each time increasing the `offset` until a call returns either fewer than `limit` or zero results.

## Example Request 
```
curl --location --request GET 'https://rest.iad-01.braze.com/email/unsubscribes?start_date=2020-01-01&end_date=2020-02-01&limit=1&offset=1&sort_direction=desc&email=example@braze.com' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR-API-KEY-HERE'
```

## Response

Entries are listed in descending order.

```json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer YOUR-REST-API-KEY
{
  "emails": [
    {
      "email": "example1@braze.com",
      "unsubscribed_at": "2016-08-25 15:24:32 +0000"
    },
    {
      "email": "example2@braze.com",
      "unsubscribed_at": "2016-08-24 17:41:58 +0000"
    },
    {
      "email": "example3@braze.com",
      "unsubscribed_at": "2016-08-24 12:01:13 +0000"
    }
  ],
  "message": "success"
}
```
{% endapi %}

Commit message:

Adding YAML title and tags in API Guide

_docs/_api/endpoints/email/get_query_unsubscribed_email_addresses.md, after:

---
nav_title: "GET: Query List of Unsubscribed Email Addresses"
article_title: "GET: Query List of Unsubscribed Email Addresses"
search_tag: Endpoint
page_order: 1
layout: api_page
page_type: reference
description: "This article outlines the usage of and parameters for using the Get Email Unsubscribes Braze endpoint."

---
{% api %}
# Retrieve List of or Query Email Unsubscribes
{% apimethod get %}
/email/unsubscribes
{% endapimethod %}

Use the /email/unsubscribes endpoint to return emails that have unsubscribed during the time period from `start_date` to `end_date`. You can use this endpoint to set up a bi-directional sync between Braze and other email systems or your own database.

{% apiref postman %}https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/4689407/SVYrsdsG?version=latest#d2966b81-188a-407b-ba7e-e6c252c44b4a {% endapiref %}

## Request Parameters

You must provide an `end_date`, as well as either an `email` or a `start_date` .

| Parameter | Required | Data Type | Description |
| ----------|-----------| ---------|------ |
| `start_date` | Optional* | String in YYYY-MM-DD format| Start date of the range to retrieve unsubscribes, must be earlier than end_date. This is treated as midnight in UTC time by the API. |
| `end_date` | Optional* | String in YYYY-MM-DD format | End date of the range to retrieve unsubscribes. This is treated as midnight in UTC time by the API. |
| `limit` | Optional | Integer | Optional field to limit the number of results returned. Defaults to 100, maximum is 500. |
| `offset` | Optional | Integer | Optional beginning point in the list to retrieve from |
| `sort_direction` | Optional | String | Pass in the value `asc` to sort unsubscribes from oldest to newest. Pass in `desc` to sort from newest to oldest. If sort_direction is not included, the default order is newest to oldest. |
| `email` | Optional* | String | If provided, we will return whether or not the user has unsubscribed |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3  .reset-td-br-4}

If your date range has more than `limit` number of unsubscribes, you will need to make multiple API calls, each time increasing the `offset` until a call returns either fewer than `limit` or zero results.

## Example Request 
```
curl --location --request GET 'https://rest.iad-01.braze.com/email/unsubscribes?start_date=2020-01-01&end_date=2020-02-01&limit=1&offset=1&sort_direction=desc&email=example@braze.com' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR-API-KEY-HERE'
```

## Response

Entries are listed in descending order.

```json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer YOUR-REST-API-KEY
{
  "emails": [
    {
      "email": "example1@braze.com",
      "unsubscribed_at": "2016-08-25 15:24:32 +0000"
    },
    {
      "email": "example2@braze.com",
      "unsubscribed_at": "2016-08-24 17:41:58 +0000"
    },
    {
      "email": "example3@braze.com",
      "unsubscribed_at": "2016-08-24 12:01:13 +0000"
    }
  ],
  "message": "success"
}
```
{% endapi %}
