---
nav_title: January 8, 2026
description: "This article contains release notes for 1/8/2026."
page_order: 12
page_type: reference
---

# January 8, 2026 release

<!-- Fill out the following four sections ("Data flexibility," "Unlocking creativity," "Robust channels," and "AI and ML automation") using the example section under the next HTML comment. -->
## Data flexibility

### Updates to Currents events

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

These following changes were made to Currents in Version 4:

* Field changes to event type `users.behaviors.pushnotification.TokenStateChange`:
    * Added new `string` field `push_token`: Push token of the event
* Field changes to event type `users.messages.pushnotification.Bounce`:
    * Added new `string` field `push_token`: Push token of the event
* Field changes to event type `users.messages.pushnotification.Send`:
    * Added new `string` field `push_token`: Push token of the event
* Field changes to event type `users.messages.rcs.Click`:
    * Added new `string` field `canvas_variation_name`: Name of the Canvas variation this user received
    * Field `user_phone_number` is now *optional*.
* Field changes to event type `users.messages.rcs.InboundReceive`:
    * Field `user_id` is now *optional*.
* Field changes to event type `users.messages.rcs.Rejection`:
    * Added new `string` field `canvas_step_message_variation_id`: API ID of the Canvas step message variation this user received

Refer to the [Currents changelog]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/distribution/braze_currents/event_glossary/currents_changelogs) for the event changes for each release.

## Unlocking creativity

CONTENT.

## Robust channels

### Banners in Canvas

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

You can select **Banners** as a messaging channel in a [Message step]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/message_step) for Canvas. You can use the drag-and-drop editor to create personalized inline messages, providing non-intrusive, contextually relevant experiences that update automatically at the start of each user session. 

### Dynamic BCC

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

With [dynamic BCC]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/email_settings/?tab=bcc%20address#dynamic-bcc), you can use Liquid in your BCC address. Note that this feature is only available in **Email Preferences** and can’t be set on the campaign itself. Only one BCC address per email recipient is allowed.

## AI and ML automation

CONTENT.

<!-- An example section containing "Release type" includes for each section. You may add addtional sections, subsections, includes, images, and links as needed. -->
## SECTION_TITLE

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Beta" %}

CONTENT.

### SUBSECTION_TITLE

CONTENT.

<!-- Use this section to highlight new Braze parternships by including an overview of each integration and a link to the related partner page on Braze Docs. -->
## New Braze partnerships

### LILT - Localization

[LILT]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/lilt/) is the complete AI solution for enterprise translation and content creation. LILT enables global organizations to scale and optimize their content, product, communications, and support operations, with AI agents and fully automated workflows.

<!-- Use this section list any new SDKs or SDK updates that are already released. -->
## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 40.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#4010)
- [Swift SDK 14.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Removes News Feed.
        - This fully removes all UI elements, data models, and actions associated with News Feed.
- [Web SDK 6.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
