_docs/_help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas.md, before:

---
page_order: 2
nav_title: Campaigns & Canvas
layout: dev_guide
guide_top_header: "Campaigns & Canvas Help Articles"

guide_featured_title: "Popular Topics"
guide_featured_list:
  - name: Why isn’t my Canvas sending?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/canvas_not_sending/
    fa_icon: far fa-paper-plane
  - name: Why are my conversions low?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/conversions_low/
    fa_icon: fas fa-cart-arrow-down
  - name: Where is my location data?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/locations_data_in_campaigns/
    fa_icon: fas fa-location-arrow



guide_menu_title: "Other Topics"
guide_menu_list:
  - name: Why is my control group so large?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/more_people_in_control_group/
    fa_icon: far fa-dot-circle
  - name: Why is my Campaign/Canvas not triggering?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/not_triggering/
    fa_icon: far fa-times-circle
  - name: Using Custom Event Properties
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/using_custom_event_properties/
    fa_icon: fas fa-code
  - name: Using Event Logging
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/using_event_logging/
    fa_icon: fas fa-clipboard-list

    
---

Commit message:

Finishing Help section YAML updates

_docs/_help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas.md, after:

---
page_order: 2
nav_title: Campaigns & Canvas
layout: dev_guide
guide_top_header: "Campaigns & Canvas Help Articles"

page_type: landing
description: "This landing page is home to help articles related to common issues with your campaigns or Canvases."
tool:
- Campaigns
- Canvas

guide_featured_title: "Popular Topics"
guide_featured_list:
  - name: Why isn’t my Canvas sending?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/canvas_not_sending/
    fa_icon: far fa-paper-plane
  - name: Why are my conversions low?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/conversions_low/
    fa_icon: fas fa-cart-arrow-down
  - name: Where is my location data?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/locations_data_in_campaigns/
    fa_icon: fas fa-location-arrow



guide_menu_title: "Other Topics"
guide_menu_list:
  - name: Why is my control group so large?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/more_people_in_control_group/
    fa_icon: far fa-dot-circle
  - name: Why is my Campaign/Canvas not triggering?
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/not_triggering/
    fa_icon: far fa-times-circle
  - name: Using Custom Event Properties
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/using_custom_event_properties/
    fa_icon: fas fa-code
  - name: Using Event Logging
    link: /docs/help/help_articles/campaigns_and_canvas/using_event_logging/
    fa_icon: fas fa-clipboard-list

    
---
