_docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/installation_methods/carthage_integration.md, before:

---
nav_title: Carthage Integration
article_title: Carthage Integration for iOS
platform: iOS
page_order: 1
description: "This reference article shows how to integrate the Braze SDK using Carthage for iOS."

---

# Carthage Integration

Starting from version 4.4.0, the Braze SDK supports XCFrameworks when integrating via Carthage. To import the full SDK, include these lines in your `Cartfile`:
```
binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/master/appboy_ios_sdk.json"
github "SDWebImage/SDWebImage"
```

Please reference the [Carthage quick start guide][1] for more detailed instructions about importing the SDK. When migrating from version `4.3.4` or before of the Braze SDK, follow the [Carthage migration guide for XCFrameworks][2].

For platform-specific usage of Carthage, refer to their [user guide][3] on Github.

### Previous versions

For versions `3.24.0` through `4.3.4`, simply include this line in your `Cartfile`:
```
binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/master/appboy_ios_sdk_full.json"
```

For versions prior to `3.24.0`, include the following in your `Cartfile`:
```
github "Appboy/Appboy-iOS-SDK" "<BRAZE_IOS_SDK_VERSION>"
```

Make sure to replace `<BRAZE_IOS_SDK_VERSION>` with the appropriate version of the Braze iOS SDK in "x.y.z" format. Release versions are available [here][4].

## Next Steps

Follow the instructions for [Completing the Integration][5].

## Dependency-Free Integration
If you want to use the Braze SDK without the `SDWebImage` dependency, install the thin version of the Braze Carthage framework by including the following line in your Cartfile:

```
binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/master/appboy_ios_sdk.json"
```

## Core Only Integration
If you want to use the Core SDK without any UI components or dependencies, install the core version of the Braze Carthage framework by including the following line in your Cartfile:

```
binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/master/appboy_ios_sdk_core.json"
```

[1]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#quick-start
[2]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#migrating-a-project-from-framework-bundles-to-xcframeworks
[3]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#if-youre-building-for-ios-tvos-or-watchos
[4]: https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/releases
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/completing_integration/

Commit message:

remove Dependency free section, folded into top section

_docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/installation_methods/carthage_integration.md, after:

---
nav_title: Carthage Integration
article_title: Carthage Integration for iOS
platform: iOS
page_order: 1
description: "This reference article shows how to integrate the Braze SDK using Carthage for iOS."

---

# Carthage Integration

Starting from version `4.4.0`, the Braze SDK supports XCFrameworks when integrating via Carthage. To import the full SDK, include these lines in your `Cartfile`:
```
binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/master/appboy_ios_sdk.json"
github "SDWebImage/SDWebImage"
```

Please reference the [Carthage quick start guide][1] for more instructions about importing the SDK.

When migrating from a version prior to `4.4.0`, follow the [Carthage migration guide for XCFrameworks][2].

{% alert note %}

For more details around syntax of the `Cartfile` or features such as version pinning, check out <a href="https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/blob/master/Documentation/Artifacts.md#cartfile">the Carthage documentation</a>. For platform-specific usage of Carthage, refer to their <a href="https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#if-youre-building-for-ios-tvos-or-watchos">user guide</a>.

{% endalert %}

### Previous versions

For versions `3.24.0` through `4.3.4`, simply include this line in your `Cartfile`:
```
binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/master/appboy_ios_sdk_full.json"
```

To import versions prior to `3.24.0`, include the following in your `Cartfile`:
```
github "Appboy/Appboy-iOS-SDK" "<BRAZE_IOS_SDK_VERSION>"
```

Make sure to replace `<BRAZE_IOS_SDK_VERSION>` with the appropriate version of the Braze iOS SDK in "x.y.z" format. Release versions are available [here][4].

## Next Steps

Follow the instructions for [Completing the Integration][5].

## Core Only Integration
If you want to use the Core SDK without any UI components or dependencies, install the core version of the Braze Carthage framework by including the following line in your Cartfile:

```
binary "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/master/appboy_ios_sdk_core.json"
```

[1]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#quick-start
[2]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#migrating-a-project-from-framework-bundles-to-xcframeworks
[4]: https://github.com/Appboy/appboy-ios-sdk/releases
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/initial_sdk_setup/completing_integration/
[6]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/blob/master/Documentation/Artifacts.md#cartfile
