_lang/ko/_user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users.md, before:

---
nav_title: 회사 사용자
article_title: 회사 사용자
page_order: 23
layout: dev_guide
guide_top_header: "회사 사용자"
guide_top_text: "회사의 Braze 계정 관리자는 사용자를 보다 세분화하거나 사례별로 관리해야 할 필요가 있을 수 있습니다. Braze는 팀을 만들고 사용자 권한 및 회사 전체 설정을 관리하여 이를 지원합니다."

page_type: landing
description: "이 랜딩 페이지에는 사용자 추가 및 삭제, 사용자 권한 설정, 팀 만들기, 회사 설정 관리 등 Braze 사용자 관리에 대한 문서가 나열되어 있습니다."

guide_featured_title: "섹션 기사"
guide_featured_list:
- name: Braze 사용자 관리
  link: /docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/adding_users_to_your_dashboard/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/user-plus-01.svg
- name: 사용자 권한 설정
  link: /docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/user-square.svg
- name: Teams
  link: /docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/teams/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/users-01.svg
---

## 팀, 권한 집합 및 역할 간의 차이점은 무엇인가요? 

{% multi_lang_include permissions.md content="Differences" %}

Commit message:

File new_features.md committed. (#10370)
Co-authored-by: internetisaiah <95643215+internetisaiah@users.noreply.github.com>

_lang/ko/_user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users.md, after:

---
nav_title: 회사 사용자
article_title: 회사 사용자
page_order: 23
layout: dev_guide
guide_top_header: "회사 사용자"
guide_top_text: "회사의 Braze 계정 관리자는 사용자를 보다 세분화하거나 사례별로 관리해야 할 필요가 있을 수 있습니다. Braze can help you do that by creating Teams and managing user permissions and company-wide settings."

page_type: landing
description: "This landing page lists articles on managing your Braze users, such as adding and deleting users, setting user permissions, creating Teams, and managing company settings."

guide_featured_title: "섹션 기사"
guide_featured_list:
- name: Braze 사용자 관리
  link: /docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/adding_users_to_your_dashboard/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/user-plus-01.svg
- name: 사용자 권한 설정
  link: /docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/user-square.svg
- name: Teams
  link: /docs/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/teams/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/users-01.svg
---

## What are the differences among Teams, permission sets, and roles? 

{% multi_lang_include permissions.md content="Differences" %}
