_docs/_home/styling_test_page.md, before:

---
nav_title: Styling Test Page
page_order: 2
noindex: true
---

# Styling Test Page

## Header Test

# H1 Banner
H1 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

## H2 Banner
H2 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

### H3 Banner
H3 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

#### H4 Banner
H4 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

##### H5 Banner
H5 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

###### H6 Banner
H6 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

## Font Test

Normal Text

*Emphasize Text*

**Bold**

_**Bold Emphasize**_

~~Strikethrough~~

## Quote Test

> Quoted Text

#### Inline Quote
Lorem ipsum dolor ``sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit``. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor.
Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. ``Donec pellentesque facilisis odio``, sed ``imperdiet ante``. Maecenas blandit justo sed turpis auctor varius. Morbi sollicitudin erat in ex egestas condimentum a et mi.

#### Quote Chunk
```
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
```

## Table Test

Instance    | Dashboard URL   | REST Endpoint
----------- |---------------- | --------------------
US-01 | `https://dashboard.braze.com` or<br> `https://dashboard-01.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-01.braze.com`
US-02 | `https://dashboard-02.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-02.braze.com`
US-03 | `https://dashboard-03.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-03.braze.com`
US-04 | `https://dashboard-04.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-04.braze.com`
US-06 | `https://dashboard-06.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-06.braze.com`
EU-01 | `https://dashboard.braze.eu` or<br> `https://dashboard-01.braze.eu` | `https://rest.fra-01.braze.eu`
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3}

#### Resetting Table word-break by column
For tables columns which word-break should be reset to the default style, use markdown options to add a class to the table using `.reset-td-br-1`, `.reset-td-br-2`, `.reset-td-br-3` , `.reset-td-br-4`, with the `#` corresponding to the column up to 4.

#### Usage
```
| Event Name                           | Feed Type              | Description                                                                               | Custom Attributes
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONG | Unbound Feed           | An email was successfully delivered to a User’s mail server.                              | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| `UNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONG`                       | Unbound Feed           | User opened an email.                                                                     | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| In-App Message Impression            | Platform-specific Feed | User viewed an In-App Message.                                                            | `app_id`, `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`             |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3  .reset-td-br-4}

```
{% tabs %}
{% tab Before %}

| Event Name                           | Feed Type              | Description                                                                               | Custom Attributes
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONG | Unbound Feed           | An email was successfully delivered to a User’s mail server.                              | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| `UNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONG`                         | Unbound Feed           | User opened an email.                                                                     | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| In-App-Message-Impression            | Platform-specific Feed | User viewed an In-App Message.                                                            | `app_id`, `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`             |

{% endtab %}
{% tab After %}

| Event Name                           | Feed Type              | Description                                                                               | Custom Attributes
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONG | Unbound Feed           | An email was successfully delivered to a User’s mail server.                              | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| `UNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONG`                       | Unbound Feed           | User opened an email.                                                                     | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| In-App-Message-Impression            | Platform-specific Feed | User viewed an In-App Message.                                                            | `app_id`, `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`             |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3  .reset-td-br-4}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Link Test
Link here: [Braze.com](https://www.braze.com){: height="36px" width="36px"}

## Image Test
Image: ![Logo]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/braze-logo-mark.png){: height="36px" width="36px"}

#### Linked Image Test
Linked Image: [![Braze]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/braze-logo-mark.png){: height="36px" width="36px"}](https://www.braze.com)

#### Image Styling

![Text]({% image_buster /assets/img/logo-braze-fa.svg %}){: style="max-width:300px; color: green" }

## Gallery Test

{% gallery %}
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img_archive/EBTH_Email.png?bf892368baf287cba5ab9a6e3b09431d  <br> This is a [link](https://www.braze.com).
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img_archive/iHeartRadio_Email.png?ecd2c8fe148939b7de957fe85cd6317e  <br> This is another `comment`.
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img_archive/Saucey_Email.png?b9768937a1cc12d4c08e55a52e700d68  <br> This is yet another __comment__.
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/schellman_iso27001_seal_grey_CMYK_300dpi_jpg.png?1b1fb9dbb80b0332c62512dcf9c83258 <br> **IMAGE TITLE** <br> This is a test to see if it will line break.
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/SOC2.png?6338040be8e98c4c9abe1f35b3e43e3a  <br> This is a regular comment.
{% endgallery %}

## Interactive Image Test

<div class="iactiveImg" data-ii="6967"></div><script src="https://interactive-img.com/js/include.js"></script>
<!--- Leaving formatting here just in case it's important...
<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 83%; padding-top: 0; height: 0;"><iframe style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; border-width:0px; max-width:100%; overflow-y:auto;" width="100%" height="100%" src="https://interactive-img.com/view?id=6967&iframe=true"></iframe></div>
-->

## Code Snippet Test

#### Code Test Objective C
```objc
- (void)submitFeedback:(ABKFeedback * )feedback
 withCompletionHandler:(nullable void (^)(ABKFeedbackSentResult feedbackSentResult))completionHandler;


# Code Test Swift
```swift
Appboy.sharedInstance()?.submitFeedback(feedback) { (feedbackSentResult) in
      print("Feedback sent: (feedbackSentResult)")
    }
```

#### Code Test Java
```java
@Override
public void onResume() {
  super.onResume();
  // Registers the BrazeInAppMessageManager for the current Activity. This Activity will now listen for
  // in-app messages from Braze.
  BrazeInAppMessageManager.getInstance().registerInAppMessageManager(activity);
}
```

#### Code Test json
```json
{
   "attributes" : "Attributes" ,
   "events" : ["Array", "Of", "Object"],
   "purchases" : ["Array" ,"Of" ,"Purchase" ,"Object"]
}
```

#### Code Test JavaScript
```javascript
appboy.subscribeToFeedUpdates(function(feed) {
  var cards = feed.cards;
  appboy.display.showFeed(undefined, cards);
});
appboy.requestFeedRefresh();
```

#### Pygments Test
```python
#!/usr/bin/python3

from engine import RunForrestRun

"""Test code for syntax highlighting!"""

class Foo:
	def __init__(self, var):
		self.var = var
		self.run()

	def run(self):
		RunForrestRun()  # run along!

```
## Alert Test

#### Short Alert

{% alert tip %}This is a tip{% endalert %}

{% alert note %}This is a note{% endalert %}

{% alert important %}This is a important alert{% endalert %}

{% alert warning %}This is a warning{% endalert %}

{% alert update %}This is an update{% endalert %}

#### Long Alert

{% alert note %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. 
{% endalert %}

{% alert important %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
{% endalert %}

{% alert update %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
{% endalert %}

{% alert tip %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
{% endalert %}

{% alert warning %}

Alert Liquid (Warning) Tag test

Should support the same list of tags above.

Usage:
{% raw  %}

```liquid
{% alert [alertname] %}
Content

{% endalert %}

```
{% endraw  %}

example:

{% raw  %}

```liquid
{% alert important %}
this is a very important alert

{% endalert %}

```
{% endraw  %}

Link here: [Braze.com](https://www.braze.com)

{% endalert %}

## Embedded Video Test

#### Embedded Video/YouTube
Defaults to youtube embedded.
{% include video.html id="XY5uXoKIvFY" %}

#### Embedded Video Right Align
{% include video.html id="XY5uXoKIvFY" align="right" %}

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

#### Embedded Video Left Align
{% include video.html id="XY5uXoKIvFY" align="left" %}

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.<br><br><br>

#### Usage:
{% raw %}
```html
{% include video.html id="[youtubeid]" %}
```
{% endraw  %}

To align right or left, and limit max width to 50% use the `align` parameter = `left` or `right`:
{% raw  %}
```html
{% include video.html id="[youtubeid]" align="left" %}

{% include video.html id="[youtubeid]" align="right" %}

```
{% endraw  %}

#### Featured Video Layout with Status Placement for Higher Resolution
To use the featured video layout which places a static video on the left side
for higher resolution display, add a video_id and a video_type ie `youtube` to
the yaml header for the page.
video_source defaults to `youtube`

{% raw  %}
```yaml
layout: featured_video
video_id: [video_id]
video_source: youtube
```
{% endraw  %}

## List Test

#### Bullet
* List 1
  * Sub List 1
* List 2
  * Sub List 2a
    * Sub Sub List 2
* List 3

#### Numbered
1. List 1
  * Sub List 1
2. List 2
3. List 3
  * Sub List 3a
  * Sub List 3b
    * Sub Sub List 3
4. List 4
    1. Sub list 4a
        1. Sub Sub List 4
    2. Sub list 4b
        1. sub sub list 4


## Collapsible Content Test

{% details Click me to Expand %}
#### Look a Hidden Code Block!

```python
print("hello world!")
```

{% enddetails %}

## Tab Test

#### Usage
{% raw %}
Enclose __tabs__ in a `{% tabs %}` and `{% endtabs %}`
Enclose individual __tab__ with the Liquid code and name of the tab `{% tab [Tab name] %}` and `{% endtab %}`
{% endraw %}

{% alert important %}
 Note number of tabs on the page should be consistent, otherwise tabs content might be hidden.
 For example if one set of tabs has `C++`,`C-Sharp` and `JS`, and another set of tabs has `C-Sharp` and `JS`,
 then when somebody clicks on `C++`, the other section will show nothing. See local tabs option below for workaround.
{% endalert %}

{%raw %}
```liquid
{% tabs %}
  {% tab objective-c %}
    Content of objective-c
  {% endtab %}
  {% tab swift %}
    Content of swift
  {% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
```

{% endraw %}

#### Local Tabs
For self contain tabs, ie tabs that only change the tab content for the specific section, then use the local parameter in the parent tabs block.

{%raw %}
```liquid
{% tabs local %}
...
{% endtabs %}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Custom Tabs

{% tabs local %}
{% tab OBJECTIVE-C %}

Add the following line of code to your `AppDelegate.m` file:

```objc
{% if include.platform == 'iOS' %}#import "Appboy-iOS-SDK/AppboyKit.h"{% else %}#import <AppboyTVOSKit/AppboyKit.h>{% endif %}
```

Within your `AppDelegate.m` file, add the following snippet within your `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method:

```objc
[Appboy startWithApiKey:@"YOUR-API-KEY"
         inApplication:application
     withLaunchOptions:launchOptions];
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab swift %}

If you are integrating the Braze SDK with CocoaPods or Carthage, add the following line of code to your `AppDelegate.swift` file:

```swift
{% if include.platform == 'iOS' %}#import Appboy_iOS_SDK{% else %}#import AppboyTVOSKit{% endif %}
```

For more information about using Objective-C code in Swift projects, please see the [Apple Developer Docs][apple_initial_setup_19].

In `AppDelegate.swift`, add following snippet to your `application(application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [NSObject: AnyObject]?) -> Bool`:

```swift
Appboy.start(withApiKey: "YOUR-API-KEY", in:application, withLaunchOptions:launchOptions)
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Sub Tabs
For tabs within tabs, `subtabs` and `subtab` can be used. Default setting is `local`.
For global `subtabs`, use the `global` option: {%raw %}`{% subtabs global %}`{% endraw %}

{% tabs local %}
{% tab Tab 1 %}
tab content 1
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 1a %}
Sub Tab 1a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 2a %}
Sub Tab 2a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab Tab 2 %}
tab content 2
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 1b %}
Sub Tab 1a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 2b %}
Sub Tab 2a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

##### Example
{% raw %}
```
{% tabs %}
{% tab Tab 1 %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 1 %}
Sub Tab 1 Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 2 %}
Sub Tab 2 Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
```
{% endraw %}

Commit message:

Add entry for anchor text to styling_test_page.md

_docs/_home/styling_test_page.md, after:

---
nav_title: Styling Test Page
page_order: 2
noindex: true
---

# Styling Test Page

## Header Test

# H1 Banner
H1 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

## H2 Banner
H2 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

### H3 Banner
H3 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

#### H4 Banner
H4 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

##### H5 Banner
H5 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

###### H6 Banner
H6 Text

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

### Custom Anchor

To add an anchor to a heading, add the following code to the end of the line that the heading is on. Replace `anchor-text` with the anchor for this heading. Use lowercase letters and put hyphens between words.

```
# Heading Text {#anchor-text}
```

## Font Test

Normal Text

*Emphasize Text*

**Bold**

_**Bold Emphasize**_

~~Strikethrough~~

## Quote Test

> Quoted Text

#### Inline Quote
Lorem ipsum dolor ``sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit``. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor.
Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. ``Donec pellentesque facilisis odio``, sed ``imperdiet ante``. Maecenas blandit justo sed turpis auctor varius. Morbi sollicitudin erat in ex egestas condimentum a et mi.

#### Quote Chunk
```
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
```

## Table Test

Instance    | Dashboard URL   | REST Endpoint
----------- |---------------- | --------------------
US-01 | `https://dashboard.braze.com` or<br> `https://dashboard-01.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-01.braze.com`
US-02 | `https://dashboard-02.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-02.braze.com`
US-03 | `https://dashboard-03.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-03.braze.com`
US-04 | `https://dashboard-04.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-04.braze.com`
US-06 | `https://dashboard-06.braze.com` | `https://rest.iad-06.braze.com`
EU-01 | `https://dashboard.braze.eu` or<br> `https://dashboard-01.braze.eu` | `https://rest.fra-01.braze.eu`
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3}

#### Resetting Table word-break by column
For tables columns which word-break should be reset to the default style, use markdown options to add a class to the table using `.reset-td-br-1`, `.reset-td-br-2`, `.reset-td-br-3` , `.reset-td-br-4`, with the `#` corresponding to the column up to 4.

#### Usage
```
| Event Name                           | Feed Type              | Description                                                                               | Custom Attributes
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONG | Unbound Feed           | An email was successfully delivered to a User’s mail server.                              | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| `UNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONG`                       | Unbound Feed           | User opened an email.                                                                     | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| In-App Message Impression            | Platform-specific Feed | User viewed an In-App Message.                                                            | `app_id`, `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`             |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3  .reset-td-br-4}

```
{% tabs %}
{% tab Before %}

| Event Name                           | Feed Type              | Description                                                                               | Custom Attributes
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONG | Unbound Feed           | An email was successfully delivered to a User’s mail server.                              | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| `UNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONG`                         | Unbound Feed           | User opened an email.                                                                     | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| In-App-Message-Impression            | Platform-specific Feed | User viewed an In-App Message.                                                            | `app_id`, `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`             |

{% endtab %}
{% tab After %}

| Event Name                           | Feed Type              | Description                                                                               | Custom Attributes
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| UNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENWORDTHATISVERYLONG | Unbound Feed           | An email was successfully delivered to a User’s mail server.                              | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| `UNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONGUNBROKENHIGHLIGHTTHATISVERYLONG`                       | Unbound Feed           | User opened an email.                                                                     | `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`                      |
| In-App-Message-Impression            | Platform-specific Feed | User viewed an In-App Message.                                                            | `app_id`, `campaign_id`, `canvas_step_id`, `canvas_id`, `canvas_variation_id`             |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 .reset-td-br-3  .reset-td-br-4}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Link Test
Link here: [Braze.com](https://www.braze.com){: height="36px" width="36px"}

## Image Test
Image: ![Logo]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/braze-logo-mark.png){: height="36px" width="36px"}

#### Linked Image Test
Linked Image: [![Braze]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/braze-logo-mark.png){: height="36px" width="36px"}](https://www.braze.com)

#### Image Styling

![Text]({% image_buster /assets/img/logo-braze-fa.svg %}){: style="max-width:300px; color: green" }

## Gallery Test

{% gallery %}
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img_archive/EBTH_Email.png?bf892368baf287cba5ab9a6e3b09431d  <br> This is a [link](https://www.braze.com).
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img_archive/iHeartRadio_Email.png?ecd2c8fe148939b7de957fe85cd6317e  <br> This is another `comment`.
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img_archive/Saucey_Email.png?b9768937a1cc12d4c08e55a52e700d68  <br> This is yet another __comment__.
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/schellman_iso27001_seal_grey_CMYK_300dpi_jpg.png?1b1fb9dbb80b0332c62512dcf9c83258 <br> **IMAGE TITLE** <br> This is a test to see if it will line break.
{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/SOC2.png?6338040be8e98c4c9abe1f35b3e43e3a  <br> This is a regular comment.
{% endgallery %}

## Interactive Image Test

<div class="iactiveImg" data-ii="6967"></div><script src="https://interactive-img.com/js/include.js"></script>
<!--- Leaving formatting here just in case it's important...
<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 83%; padding-top: 0; height: 0;"><iframe style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; border-width:0px; max-width:100%; overflow-y:auto;" width="100%" height="100%" src="https://interactive-img.com/view?id=6967&iframe=true"></iframe></div>
-->

## Code Snippet Test

#### Code Test Objective C
```objc
- (void)submitFeedback:(ABKFeedback * )feedback
 withCompletionHandler:(nullable void (^)(ABKFeedbackSentResult feedbackSentResult))completionHandler;


# Code Test Swift
```swift
Appboy.sharedInstance()?.submitFeedback(feedback) { (feedbackSentResult) in
      print("Feedback sent: (feedbackSentResult)")
    }
```

#### Code Test Java
```java
@Override
public void onResume() {
  super.onResume();
  // Registers the BrazeInAppMessageManager for the current Activity. This Activity will now listen for
  // in-app messages from Braze.
  BrazeInAppMessageManager.getInstance().registerInAppMessageManager(activity);
}
```

#### Code Test json
```json
{
   "attributes" : "Attributes" ,
   "events" : ["Array", "Of", "Object"],
   "purchases" : ["Array" ,"Of" ,"Purchase" ,"Object"]
}
```

#### Code Test JavaScript
```javascript
appboy.subscribeToFeedUpdates(function(feed) {
  var cards = feed.cards;
  appboy.display.showFeed(undefined, cards);
});
appboy.requestFeedRefresh();
```

#### Pygments Test
```python
#!/usr/bin/python3

from engine import RunForrestRun

"""Test code for syntax highlighting!"""

class Foo:
	def __init__(self, var):
		self.var = var
		self.run()

	def run(self):
		RunForrestRun()  # run along!

```
## Alert Test

#### Short Alert

{% alert tip %}This is a tip{% endalert %}

{% alert note %}This is a note{% endalert %}

{% alert important %}This is a important alert{% endalert %}

{% alert warning %}This is a warning{% endalert %}

{% alert update %}This is an update{% endalert %}

#### Long Alert

{% alert note %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. 
{% endalert %}

{% alert important %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
{% endalert %}

{% alert update %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
{% endalert %}

{% alert tip %}
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.
{% endalert %}

{% alert warning %}

Alert Liquid (Warning) Tag test

Should support the same list of tags above.

Usage:
{% raw  %}

```liquid
{% alert [alertname] %}
Content

{% endalert %}

```
{% endraw  %}

example:

{% raw  %}

```liquid
{% alert important %}
this is a very important alert

{% endalert %}

```
{% endraw  %}

Link here: [Braze.com](https://www.braze.com)

{% endalert %}

## Embedded Video Test

#### Embedded Video/YouTube
Defaults to youtube embedded.
{% include video.html id="XY5uXoKIvFY" %}

#### Embedded Video Right Align
{% include video.html id="XY5uXoKIvFY" align="right" %}

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.

#### Embedded Video Left Align
{% include video.html id="XY5uXoKIvFY" align="left" %}

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Sed nec tortor at lectus tempus tempor. Suspendisse tellus diam, finibus eu dictum non, varius et ipsum.<br><br><br>

#### Usage:
{% raw %}
```html
{% include video.html id="[youtubeid]" %}
```
{% endraw  %}

To align right or left, and limit max width to 50% use the `align` parameter = `left` or `right`:
{% raw  %}
```html
{% include video.html id="[youtubeid]" align="left" %}

{% include video.html id="[youtubeid]" align="right" %}

```
{% endraw  %}

#### Featured Video Layout with Status Placement for Higher Resolution
To use the featured video layout which places a static video on the left side
for higher resolution display, add a video_id and a video_type ie `youtube` to
the yaml header for the page.
video_source defaults to `youtube`

{% raw  %}
```yaml
layout: featured_video
video_id: [video_id]
video_source: youtube
```
{% endraw  %}

## List Test

#### Bullet
* List 1
  * Sub List 1
* List 2
  * Sub List 2a
    * Sub Sub List 2
* List 3

#### Numbered
1. List 1
  * Sub List 1
2. List 2
3. List 3
  * Sub List 3a
  * Sub List 3b
    * Sub Sub List 3
4. List 4
    1. Sub list 4a
        1. Sub Sub List 4
    2. Sub list 4b
        1. sub sub list 4


## Collapsible Content Test

{% details Click me to Expand %}
#### Look a Hidden Code Block!

```python
print("hello world!")
```

{% enddetails %}

## Tab Test

#### Usage
{% raw %}
Enclose __tabs__ in a `{% tabs %}` and `{% endtabs %}`
Enclose individual __tab__ with the Liquid code and name of the tab `{% tab [Tab name] %}` and `{% endtab %}`
{% endraw %}

{% alert important %}
 Note number of tabs on the page should be consistent, otherwise tabs content might be hidden.
 For example if one set of tabs has `C++`,`C-Sharp` and `JS`, and another set of tabs has `C-Sharp` and `JS`,
 then when somebody clicks on `C++`, the other section will show nothing. See local tabs option below for workaround.
{% endalert %}

{%raw %}
```liquid
{% tabs %}
  {% tab objective-c %}
    Content of objective-c
  {% endtab %}
  {% tab swift %}
    Content of swift
  {% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
```

{% endraw %}

#### Local Tabs
For self contain tabs, ie tabs that only change the tab content for the specific section, then use the local parameter in the parent tabs block.

{%raw %}
```liquid
{% tabs local %}
...
{% endtabs %}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Custom Tabs

{% tabs local %}
{% tab OBJECTIVE-C %}

Add the following line of code to your `AppDelegate.m` file:

```objc
{% if include.platform == 'iOS' %}#import "Appboy-iOS-SDK/AppboyKit.h"{% else %}#import <AppboyTVOSKit/AppboyKit.h>{% endif %}
```

Within your `AppDelegate.m` file, add the following snippet within your `application:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method:

```objc
[Appboy startWithApiKey:@"YOUR-API-KEY"
         inApplication:application
     withLaunchOptions:launchOptions];
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab swift %}

If you are integrating the Braze SDK with CocoaPods or Carthage, add the following line of code to your `AppDelegate.swift` file:

```swift
{% if include.platform == 'iOS' %}#import Appboy_iOS_SDK{% else %}#import AppboyTVOSKit{% endif %}
```

For more information about using Objective-C code in Swift projects, please see the [Apple Developer Docs][apple_initial_setup_19].

In `AppDelegate.swift`, add following snippet to your `application(application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [NSObject: AnyObject]?) -> Bool`:

```swift
Appboy.start(withApiKey: "YOUR-API-KEY", in:application, withLaunchOptions:launchOptions)
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

#### Sub Tabs
For tabs within tabs, `subtabs` and `subtab` can be used. Default setting is `local`.
For global `subtabs`, use the `global` option: {%raw %}`{% subtabs global %}`{% endraw %}

{% tabs local %}
{% tab Tab 1 %}
tab content 1
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 1a %}
Sub Tab 1a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 2a %}
Sub Tab 2a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab Tab 2 %}
tab content 2
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 1b %}
Sub Tab 1a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 2b %}
Sub Tab 2a Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

##### Example
{% raw %}
```
{% tabs %}
{% tab Tab 1 %}
{% subtabs %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 1 %}
Sub Tab 1 Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% subtab Sub Tab 2 %}
Sub Tab 2 Content
{% endsubtab %}
{% endsubtabs %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
```
{% endraw %}
