---
nav_title: October 15, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for October 15, 2024."
page_order: 2
page_type: reference
---
 
# October 15, 2024 release

## Data flexibility

### Campaigns and Canvases

While creating campaigns and Canvases, you can calculate the exact number of reachable users in your target audience instead of the default estimation by selecting [Calculate exact statistics]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/creating_a_segment/#statistics-for-segment-size).

### API Android objects

The [`android_priority` parameter]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/messaging/android_object/#additional-parameter-details) will accept values either “normal” or “high” to specify the FCM sender priority. By default, notification messages are sent with high priority, and data messages are sent with normal priority.

For more information on how different values impact delivery, see [Android message priority](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/android/message-priority/).

### SDK

Use the [Braze SDK's built-in debugger]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/debugging/) to troubleshoot issues for your SDK-powered channels without needing to enable verbose logging in your app.

### Live Activities

We updated the [frequently asked questions]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/live_notifications/live_activities/) for Swift Live Activities with a few new questions and answers.

### Custom events

[Event property objects]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_events/#custom-event-properties) that contain array or object values can now have an event property payload of up to 100&nbsp;KB.

### Random bucket numbers

Use [random audience re-entry with random bucket numbers]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/random_bucket_numbers/#random-audience-re-entry-using-random-bucket-numbers) for A/B testing or targeting specific user groups in your campaigns.

### Segment Extensions

You can [refresh segment extensions on a recurring schedule]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segment_extension/#setting-up-a-recurring-refresh) by selecting the frequency at which the extensions will refresh (daily, weekly, or monthly) and the specific time the refresh will occur.

## Robust channels

### SMS

We added [Adding UTM parameters]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/sms/campaign/link_shortening/#using-link-shortening) to demonstrate how you can use UTM parameters in an SMS message, so you track the performance of campaigns in third-party analytics tools, such as Google Analytics.

### Landing pages

[Connect your own domain]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/landing_pages/customizing_urls/) to your Braze workspace to customize your landing page URLs with your brand.

### LINE and Braze

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Beta" %}

We added new documentation:

- [LINE message types]({{site.baseurl}}/line/create/message_types/) covers the LINE message types you can compose, including aspects and limitations, and is part of the LINE beta collection.
- [User account linking]({{site.baseurl}}/line/line_setup/#user-account-linking) allows users to link their LINE account to your app’s user account. You can then use Liquid in Braze, such as {% raw %}`{{line_id}}`{% endraw %}, to create a personalized URL for the user that passes the user's LINE ID back to your website or app, which can then be associated with a known user.

### WhatsApp and Braze

[WhatsApp Business Accounts (WABA)]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/overview/#step-2-whatsapp-setup) can now be shared with multiple Business Solution Providers.

## New Braze partnerships

### Future Anthem - Dynamic Content

The Braze and [Future Anthem]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/future_anthem/) partnership leverages Amplifier AI to deliver content personalization, real-time experiences, and dynamic audiences. Amplifier AI works across sports, casinos, and lottery, allowing you to enhance Braze player profiles with industry-specific player attributes, such as a favorite game, engagement score, expected next bet, and more.

## Settings

### Indentifier field-level encryption

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Using [identifier field-level encryption]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/analytics/field_level_encryption/), you can seamlessly encrypt email addresses with AWS Key Management Service (KMS) to minimize personally identifiable information (PII) shared in Braze. Encryption replaces sensitive data with ciphertext, which is unreadable encrypted information.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Swift SDK 10.3.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1110)
- [Swift SDK 11.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1110)
    - Adds support for [Swift 6 strict concurrency checking](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/adoptingswift6)
        - Relevant public Braze classes and data types now conform to the `Sendable` protocol and can be safely used across concurrency contexts.
        - Main thread-only APIs are now marked with the `@MainActor` attribute.
        - We recommend using Xcode 16.0 or later to take advantage of these features while minimizing the number of warnings generated by the compiler. Previous versions of Xcode may still be used, but some features may generate warnings.
    - When integrating push notification support manually, you may need to update the `UNUserNotificationCenterDelegate` conformance to use the `@preconcurrency` attribute to prevent warnings.
        - Applying the `@preconcurrency` attribute on protocol conformance is only available in Xcode 16.0 or later. Reference our sample integration code [here](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/tree/main/Examples/Swift/Sources/PushNotifications-Manual).
- [React Native SDK 13.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#1300)
    - Updates the native Android version bindings from [Braze Android SDK 31.1.0 to 32.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v31.1.0...v32.1.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Updates the native iOS version bindings from [Braze Swift SDK 10.3.0 to 11.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/10.3.0...11.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
- [Flutter SDK 11.1.0](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog#1110)
- [Swift SDK 11.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#1110)
- [Android SDK 33.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#3300)
    - Updated Kotlin from 1.8 to Kotlin 2.0.
- [Web SDK 5.5.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#550)