---
nav_title: December 10, 2024
page_order: 0
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 12/10/24."
---

# December 10, 2024 release

## SDK user location by IP address

As of November 26, 2024, Braze will detect user locations from the geolocated country using the IP address from the start of the first SDK session. Braze will use the IP address to set the country value on user profiles that are created via the SDK, and that IP based country setting will be available during and after the first session. Refer to [Location tracking]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/locations_and_geofences/location_tracking/) for more details.

## Elevated Access setting

[Elevated Access]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/company_settings/security_settings/#elevated-access) adds an extra layer of security for sensitive actions in your Braze dashboard. When active, users need to re-verify their account before exporting a segment or viewing an API key. To use Elevated Access, go to **Settings** > **Admin Settings** > **Security Settings** and toggle it on.

## Permission for viewing personally identifiable information (PII)

For admins, you can [allow users to view PII]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/#list-of-permissions) as defined by your company in the dashboard in message previews that use Liquid variables to access user properties. 

For workspaces, you can allow users to view PII as defined by your company in the dashboard, or view user profiles but redact fields your company has identified as PII.

## Data flexibility

### Data lake schemas

The following schemas have been added to the raw table schemas:
- `USERS_CANVASSTEP_PROGRESSION_SHARED`: Progression events for a user in a Canvas
- `CHANGELOGS_GLOBALCONTROLGROUP_SHARED`: Identify which random bucket numbers are in the current and previous Global Control Group
- `USERS_MESSAGES_FEATUREFLAG_IMPRESSION_SHARED`: Impression events for when a user views an feature flag

### Account-based segmentation

You can do [business-to-business (B2B) account-based segmentation]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/getting_started/b2b_use_cases/account_based_segmentation/) in two ways, depending on how you set up your B2B data model:

- When using catalogs for your business objects
- When using connected sources for your business objects

### Segmentation filters

Refer to [Segmentation filters]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segmentation_filters) for the full list of segmentation filters and their descriptions.

#### User profile created at

Segment your users by when their user profile was created. If a user was added by CSV or API, then this filter reflects the date they were added. If the user isn't added by CSV or API and has their first session tracked by the SDK, then this filter reflects the date of that first session.

#### Sending phone number

Segment your users by the e.164 phone number field. You can use regular expressions with this filter to segment by phone numbers with a specific country code.

## New Braze partnerships

### Narvar - eCommerce

The Braze and [Narvar](https://corp.narvar.com/) integration enables brands to leverage Narvar’s notification events to trigger messages directly from Braze, keeping customers informed with timely updates.

### Zeotap for Currents - Customer data platform

The Braze and [Zeotap](https://zeotap.com/) integration empowers you to extend the scale and reach of your campaigns by syncing Zeotap customer segments to Braze user profiles. With [Currents]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/braze_currents/), you can also connect data to Zeotap to make it actionable across the entire growth stack.

### Notify - Dynamic content

The Braze and [Notify](https://notifyai.io/) integration empowers marketers to effectively drive engagement across various platforms. Instead of relying on traditional marketing methods, a Braze API-triggered campaign can leverage Notify's capabilities to deliver personalized messaging through multiple channels, including email, SMS, push notifications, and more.

### Contentful - Dynamic content

The Braze and [Contentful](https://www.contentful.com/) integration allows you to dynamically use Connected Content to pull content from Contentful into your Braze campaigns.

### Outgrow - Leads capture 

The Braze and [Outgrow](https://outgrow.co/) integration lets you automatically transfer user data from Outgrow into Braze, enabling highly personalized and targeted campaigns.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Web SDK 5.6.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Flutter SDK 12.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-flutter-sdk/releases/tag/12.0.0)
    - Updates the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 10.3.1 to 11.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/10.3.1...11.3.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed)
    - Updates the native Android bridge [from Braze Android SDK 32.1.0 to 33.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v32.1.0...v33.1.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed)
- [Swift SDK 11.0.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/11.0.1/CHANGELOG.md)