---
nav_title: April 2, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for April 2, 2024."
page_order: 9
page_type: reference
---

# April 2, 2024 release

## WhatsApp

### Multiple business accounts

Now you can add multiple WhatsApp Business accounts and subscription groups to each workspace. For a full walkthrough, see [Multiple WhatsApp Business accounts and phone numbers]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/overview/multiple_subscription_groups/).

### Read rates

WhatsApp is testing new approaches, starting with consumers in India, to create more valuable experiences and maximize engagement with businesses’ marketing conversations. This may include limiting the number of marketing conversations a person receives from any business in a given period, starting with a small number of conversations that are less likely to be read. For more information, see [Meta resources]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp/meta_resources/).

## Data flexibility

### Sync Amazon S3 buckets to Braze

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

You can now use Cloud Data Ingestion for S3 to directly integrate one or more S3 buckets in your AWS account with Braze. When new files are published to S3, a message is posted to SQS, and Braze Cloud Data Ingestion takes in those new files. For more information, see [File storage integrations]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/cloud_ingestion/file_storage_integrations/).

### Shopify OAuth

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Shopify  is a leading global commerce company providing trusted tools to start, grow, market, and manage a retail business of any size. Now when you set up Shopify for Braze, you can [enable OAuth for your workspace]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_orchestration/channel_extensions/ecommerce/shopify/setting_up_shopify/).

### Use Expo for iOS push notifications

We [added instructions]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/react_native/push_notifications/?tab=expo) for integrating rich push notifications and Push Stories into your iOS app using Expo with React Native.

### Remote start iOS live activities

Now you can remote start your live activities on iOS using the [`/messages/live_activity/start` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/messaging/live_activity/start/). For a full walkthrough, see [Live Activities: Start an Activity]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/swift/live_activities/live_activities/#step-2-start-the-activity).

## AI and ML automation

### Item recommendations

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

With BrazeAI<sup>TM</sup>, you can now calculate the most popular products or create personalized AI recommendations for a specific catalog. For more information, see [About item recommendations]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/recommendations/about_item_recommendations/).

### QA in-app message content

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Previously, you could perform quality assurance on your SMS and push notification content using BrazeAI<sup>TM</sup> in the Braze dashboard. Now, you can [QA in-app message content]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/generative_ai/ai_content_qa/) too.

## New Braze partnerships

### Census - Cohort Import

You can now [import cohort users from Braze to Census]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/reverse_etl/census/census_cohort_import/), a data activation platform that connects cloud data warehouses like Snowflake and BigQuery to Braze. Your marketing teams can unlock the power of their first-party data to build dynamic audience segments, sync customer attributes to personalize campaigns, and keep all their data in Braze up-to-date.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [React Native 9.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
  - Updated the minimum React Native version to 0.71.0.
  - Updated the minimum iOS version to 12.0.
  - Updated the iOS bindings to use Braze Swift SDK 8.1.0.
  - Updated the Android bindings to use Braze Android SDK 30.1.1.
