---
nav_title: April 30, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for April 30, 2024."
page_order: 8
page_type: reference
---

# April 30, 2024 release

## Permissions to create or update promotion code lists

As of April 2024, users will need the “Access Campaigns, Canvases, Cards, Segments, Media Library” permission to create or update promotion code lists. Refer to [Managing limited and team role permissions]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/#managing-limited-and-team-role-permissions) for a list of permission names and their descriptions.

## Data flexibility

### SAML just-in-time provisioning

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="Early access" %}

[Just-in-time provisioning]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/single_sign_on/saml_jit) works with SAML SSO to allow new dashboard users to create a Braze account on their first sign in. This eliminates the need for administrators to manually create an account for a new dashboard user, choose their permissions, assign them to a workspace, and wait for them to activate their account.

### Permission sets and roles

Use [permission sets]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/manage_your_braze_users/user_permissions/#permission-sets-and-roles) to bundle permissions related to specific subject areas or actions. These permission sets can be applied to dashboard users who need the same access across different workspaces.

### Cloud Data Ingestion Segments

Braze [Cloud Data Ingestion segments]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/segment_extension/cdi_segments) allow you to write SQL that directly queries your own data warehouse by using data made available via your CDI connections, and create a group of users that can be targeted within Braze.

## Unlocking creativity

### Query Builder templates

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Using Query Builder templates, you can create reports using Braze data from Snowflake. To access [Query Builder]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/analytics/query_builder/) templates, select **Query Template** when creating a report. All templates surface data from up to the last 60 days, but you can directly edit that and other values in the editor.

### Performance data by segment

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can break down [performance data by segment]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/reporting/viewing_and_understanding_segment_data/#performance-data-by-segment) in Query Builder report templates for campaigns, variants, and Canvases and Canvas steps by segments.

## Robust channels

### Automatic link shortening for SMS messaging

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Use [automatic link shortening]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/sms/keywords/keyword_handling/?tab=manage%20responses#managing-keywords-and-auto-responses) to automatically shorten static URLs in your response. This can help shape your response as the character counter will update to show the expected length of the shortened URL.

## New Braze partnerships

### Friendbuy - Loyalty

Leverage the integration between Braze and [Friendbuy]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_personalization/referrals/friendbuy/) to expand your email and SMS capabilities while effortlessly automating your referral and loyalty program communications. Braze will generate customer profiles for all the opted-in phone numbers collected via Friendbuy.

### NiftyImages - Dynamic Content

The Braze and [NiftyImages]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_personalization/dynamic_content/visual_and_interactive_content/niftyimages/) partnership allows you to create dynamic and personalized images for your email campaigns by mapping your existing Braze personalization tags to your NiftyImages URLs.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 30.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Braze Segment Swift Plugin 2.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-segment-swift/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#240)
- [Flutter SDK 9.0.0](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog)
    - Updates the native iOS bridge from [Braze Swift SDK 7.7.0 to 8.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/7.7.0...8.4.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
        - The minimum iOS deployment target has been updated to 12.0.
    - Updates the native Android bridge from [Braze Android SDK 29.0.1 to 30.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v29.0.1...v30.3.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - The minimum supported Dart version is 2.15.0.
- [React Native SDK 9.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Swift SDK 8.3.0-8.4.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Swift SDK 9.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Removes the default privacy tracking domains from the BrazeKit privacy manifest.
        - If you are using the Braze [data tracking features]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/analytics/managing_data_collection/?sdktab=swift#swift_privacy-manifest), you will need to manually add your tracking endpoint to your app-level privacy manifest.
        - Refer to the updated [tutorial](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/tutorials/braze/e1-privacy-tracking) for integration guidance.
    - Removes the deprecated `BrazeDelegate.braze(_:sdkAuthenticationFailedWithError) method in favor of BrazeSDKAuthDelegate.braze(_:sdkAuthenticationFailedWithError)`.
        - This method was originally deprecated in [release 5.14.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/releases/tag/5.14.0).
        - Failing to switch to the new delegate method will not trigger a compiler error; instead, the `BrazeDelegate.braze(_:sdkAuthenticationFailedWithError)` method you define will simply not be called.
- [Xamarin SDK Version 4.0.3](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-xamarin-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#403)