---
nav_title: May 28, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for May 28, 2024."
page_order: 7 
page_type: reference
---

# May 28, 2024 release

## Visual updates to documentation site

You may have noticed our documentation website has a snazzy new look! We've revamped it to reflect the new vibrant Braze brand identity. For a behind-the-scenes look at our new brand, read more at [Unveiling Our New Brand: A Conversation with Braze Executive Creative Director Greg Erdelyi](https://www.braze.com/resources/articles/unveiling-our-new-brand-a-conversation-with-braze-executive-creative-director-greg-erdelyi).

## Support for Portuguese and Spanish

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Braze is now available in both Portuguese and Spanish. To change the language the Braze dashboard appears in, refer to [Language settings]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/access_braze/language/).

## Robust channels

### Multi-language settings

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

By adjusting [multi-language settings]({{site.baseurl}}/multi_language_support/), you can target users in different languages and locations with different messages all within a single email message. To edit and manage multi-language support, you must have the "Manage Multi-Language Settings" user permission. To add the locale to a message, you'll need permissions for editing campaigns.

### Message-level one-click list-unsubscribe header

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

The one-click unsubscribe for the list-unsubscribe header ([RFC 8058](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8058)) provides an easy way for recipients to opt-out from emails. You can adjust this header setting to be applied at a message level in your emails. For more information on this setting, refer to [Email unsubscribe header in workspaces]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/administrative/app_settings/email_settings/#email-unsubscribe-header-in-workspaces).

### About email sanitization

Visit our new [sanitization]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/best_practices/) article to learn more about the process that occurs when Braze detects a specific type of JavaScript in your email message. Its main purpose is to prevent bad actors from accessing other Braze dashboard users' session data.

### Inclusion count for Content Blocks

After adding a Content Block in an active campaign or Canvas, you can [preview this Content Block]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/templates_and_media/content_blocks/) from the Content Blocks Library by hovering over the Content Block and selecting the <i class="fa fa-eye preview-icon"></i> **Preview** icon.

### Canvas statuses

On the Braze dashboard, your Canvases are grouped by their status. Check out the different [Canvas statuses and descriptions]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/messaging_fundamentals/about_statuses/) for what they mean.

## AI and ML automation

### Brand guidelines for AI copywriting assistant

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can now create and apply [brand guidelines]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/generative_ai/ai_copywriting/brand_guidelines/) to customize the style of copy generated by the AI copywriting assistant to fit your brand's voice. Set up multiple guidelines for different scenarios to ensure your tone always matches the context.
 
## New Braze partnerships

### Adikteev - Analytics

The Braze and [Adikteev]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_orchestration/retargeting/adikteev/) integration allows you to boost user retention by leveraging Adikteev’s churn prediction technology within Braze CRM campaigns to target high-risk user segments in priority.
 
### Celebrus - Analytics
 
The Braze and [Celebrus]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/customer_data_platform/celebrus/) integration seamlessly integrates with the Braze SDK across web and mobile app channels, facilitating the population of Braze with channel activity data. This includes comprehensive insights into visitor traffic across digital assets over specified periods.
 
### IAM Studio - Message Templates
 
With the Braze and [IAM Studio]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/message_orchestration/templates/iam_studio/) integration, you can easily insert customizable in-app message templates into your Braze in-app messages, offering image replacement, text modification, deep link settings, custom attributes, and event settings. Using IAM Studio, you can reduce message production time and dedicate more time to content planning.
 
### Regal - Instant Chat

By integrating Braze and [Regal]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/additional_channels_and_extensions/additional_channels/instant_chat/regal/), you can create a more consistent and personalized experience across all your customer touchpoints.

### Treasure Data - Cohort Import
 
With the Braze and [Treasure Data]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/cohort_import/treasuredata/) integration, you can import user cohorts from Treasure Data to Braze so you can send targeted campaigns based on data that may only exist in your warehouse.
 
### Zapier - Workflow Automation
 
The Braze and [Zapier]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_analytics/workflow_automation/zapier/) partnership leverages the Braze API and Braze webhooks to connect with third-party applications to automate various actions.

## SDK updates
 
The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 31.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Braze Segment Swift Plugin 3.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-segment-swift/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#300)
    - Updates the Braze Swift SDK bindings to require releases from the 9.2.0+ SemVer denomination.
        - This allows compatibility with any version of the Braze SDK from 9.2.0 up to, but not including, 10.0.0.
        - Refer to the changelog entries for [7.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#700), [8.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#800), and [9.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#900) for more information on potential breaking changes.
    - Push notification support now requires a call to the static method `BrazeDestination.prepareForDelayedInitialization()` as early as possible in the app lifecycle, in your application’s `AppDelegate.application(_:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:)` method.
- [Cordova SDK 9.0.0-9.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-cordova-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Updated the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 7.7.0 to 9.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/7.7.0...9.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
- [Expo Plugin 2.1.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-expo-plugin/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#211)
- [Flutter SDK 10.1.0](https://pub.dev/packages/braze_plugin/changelog)
- [React Native SDK 11.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/11.0.0/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Swift SDK 9.1.0-9.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#920)
- Unity 6.0.0
    - Updated the native iOS bridge [from Braze Swift SDK 7.7.0 to 9.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/7.7.0...9.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Updated the native Android bridge [from Braze Android SDK 29.0.1 to 30.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v29.0.1...v30.3.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
- [Web SDK 5.3.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- Xamarin SDK Version 5.0.0
    - Updated the iOS binding [from Braze Swift SDK 8.4.0 to 9.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/8.4.0...9.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).