---
nav_title: August 20, 2024
description: "This article contains release notes for August 20, 2024."
page_order: 4
page_type: reference
---
 
# August 20, 2024 release

## New use cases

### Catalogs

You can bring in any type of data into a catalog. Typically, the data is metadata about offerings, such as products, discounts, promotions, events, and similar. Read our [use cases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs) and learn how you can use this data to target users with highly relevant messaging.

### Intelligence Suite

The Intelligence Suite provides powerful features to analyze user history and campaign and Canvas performance, then make automatic adjustments to increase engagement, viewership, and conversions. For a few examples of how these features can benefit different industries, check out our [use cases]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/intelligence).

## Home dashboard update

You can [pick up where you left off]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/analytics/home_dashboard/#pick-up-where-you-left-off) in the Braze dashboard with easy access to files you've recently edited or created. This section appears at the top of the **Home** page of the Braze dashboard.

## Data flexibility

### Data Transformation templates and new destination

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Build your Data Transformation using our dedicated [template library]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/data_transformation/creating_a_transformation#step-2-create-a-transformation) to help you get started with certain external platforms, instead of default code. You can now select **POST: Send messages immediately via API Only** as your destination to transform webhooks from a source platform to send immediate messages to your users.

### Merge users in bulk

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

If you encounter duplicate user profiles, you can [bulk merge]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/user_profiles/duplicate_users#bulk-merging) these users to help streamline your data.

### Export custom attributes

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

You can [export the list of custom attributes]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_attributes/#exporting-data) as a CSV file by selecting **Export all** on the **Custom Attributes** page. The CSV file will be generated, and a download link will be emailed to you.

### Currents IP allowlisting

Braze will send Currents data from the listed IPs, which are automatically and dynamically added to any API keys that have been opted-in for [allowlisting]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/braze_currents/setting_up_currents/).

## Robust channels

### New segment builder experience

{% multi_lang_include release_type.md release="General availability" %}

Build a segment using our [updated experience]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/creating_a_segment). Segments update in real-time as data changes, and you can create as many segments as needed for your targeting and messaging purposes.

### Metrics by segments

Use [Query Builder]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/analytics/query_builder/) report templates to break down performance metrics for campaigns, Canvas, variants, and steps by segments.

### Phone number acquisition

To use the WhatsApp messaging channel, you'll need a phone number that meets WhatsApp’s requirements for its [Cloud API](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/cloud-api/phone-numbers) or [On-Premises API](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/on-premises/phone-numbers). 

You must acquire your phone number yourself, as Braze won't provision the number for you. You can either purchase a physical phone with a SIM card through your business phone provider or use one of our partners: Twilio or Infoblip. **You must have your own Twilio or Infobip account because this cannot be done through Braze.**

## New Braze partnerships

### Zendesk Chat - Instant Chat

The Braze and [Zendesk Chat]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/zendesk_chat/) integration uses webhooks from each platform to set up a two-way SMS conversation. When a user requests support, a ticket is created in Zendesk. Agent responses are forwarded to Braze through an API-triggered SMS campaign, and user replies are sent back to Zendesk.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 32.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
- [Swift SDK 10.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md)
    - The following changes have been made when subscribing to Push events with [`Braze.Notifications.subscribeToUpdates(payloadTypes:_:)`](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/documentation/brazekit/braze/notifications-swift.class/subscribetoupdates(payloadtypes:_:)):
        - The `update` closure will now be triggered by both "Push Opened" and "Push Received" events by default. Previously, it would only be triggered by "Push Opened" events.
            - To continue subscribing only to "Push Opened" events, pass in `[.opened]` for the parameter `payloadTypes`. Alternatively, implement your `update` closure to check that the `type` from the `Braze.Notifications.Payload` is `.opened`.
        - When receiving a push notification with `content-available: true`, the [`Braze.Notifications.Payload.type`](https://braze-inc.github.io/braze-swift-sdk/documentation/brazekit/braze/notifications-swift.class/payload/type) will now be `.received` instead of `.opened`.
    - Marks the following deprecated APIs as unavailable:
        - `Braze.Configuration.Api.Flavor`
        - `Braze.Configuration.Api.flavor`
        - `Braze.Configuration.Api.SdkMetadata`
        - `Braze.Configuration.Api.addSdkMetadata(_:)`
        - `Braze.ContentCard.ClickAction.uri(_:useWebview:)`
        - `Braze.ContentCard.ClickAction.uri`
        - `Braze.InAppMessage.ClickAction.uri(_:useWebview:)`
        - `Braze.InAppMessage.ClickAction.uri`
        - `Braze.InAppMessage.ModalImage.imageUri`
        - `Braze.InAppMessage.Full.imageUri`
        - `Braze.InAppMessage.FullImage.imageUri`
        - `Braze.InAppMessage.Themes.default`
        - `Braze.deviceId(queue:completion:)`
        - `Braze._objc_deviceId(completion:)`
        - `Braze.deviceId()`
        - `Braze.User.setCustomAttributeArray(key:array:fileID:line:)`
        - `Braze.User.addToCustomAttributeArray(key:value:fileID:line:)`
        - `Braze.User.removeFromCustomAttributeArray(key:value:fileID:line:)`
        - `Braze.User._objc_addToCustomAttributeArray(key:value:)`
        - `Braze.User._objc_removeFromCustomAttributeArray(key:value:)`
        - `gifViewProvider`
        - `GifViewProvider.default`
    - Removes the deprecated APIs:
        - `Braze.Configuration.DeviceProperty.pushDisplayOptions`
        - `Braze.InAppMessageRaw.Context.Error.extraProcessClickAction`
    - Removes the deprecated `BrazeLocation` class in favor of `BrazeLocationProvider`.
- [Xamarin SDK Version 6.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-xamarin-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Added support for .NET 8.0 for the iOS and Android bindings as .NET 7.0 has reached end of life support.
        - This removes support for .NET 7.0.
    - Updated the Android binding from [Braze Android 30.4.0 to 32.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/compare/v30.4.0...v32.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
    - Updated the iOS binding from [Braze Swift SDK 9.0.0 to 10.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/9.0.0...10.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
        - When subscribing to push notification events, the subscription will be triggered on iOS for both "Push Received" and "Push Opened", instead of only for "Push Opened" events.
- [React Native SDK 12.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/12.0.0/CHANGELOG.md)
    - Updates the native iOS version bindings from [Braze Swift SDK 9.0.0 to 10.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/compare/9.0.0...10.0.0#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).
        - When subscribing to push notification events, the subscription will be triggered on iOS for both `push_received` and `push_opened`, instead of only for `push_opened` events.