_docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email.md, before:

---
nav_title: Email
article_title: Email
page_order: 1.5
layout: dev_guide
guide_top_header: "Email"
guide_top_text: "With email at Braze, you can create completely customized and personalized email messages in either campaigns or Canvas that will grab your user's attention fast. Check out the following articles to learn more."
description: "This landing page is home to Braze email. Here, you can learn how to create an email campaign, how to use the drag-and-drop editor, how to manage user subscriptions, the preference center, and more."
channel:
  - email
search_rank: 2
guide_featured_title: "Popular articles"
guide_featured_list:
- name: About Email
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/about/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/check-square-broken.svg
- name: Managing User Subscriptions
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/managing_user_subscriptions/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/users-01.svg
- name: Link Aliasing
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/templates/link_aliasing/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/link-03.svg
- name: Create an Email Campaign
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/mail-01.svg
- name: Drag-And-Drop Editor
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/brush-02.svg
- name: Templates
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/templates/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/table.svg
- name: Email Reporting
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/email_reporting/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/bar-chart-01.svg

guide_menu_title: "More articles"
guide_menu_list:
- name: Email Setup
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/email_setup/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/mail-01.svg
- name: Locales in Messages
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/using_locales/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/users-01.svg
- name: Preference Center
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/preference_center/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/list.svg
- name: CSS Inlining
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/css_inline/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/align-left.svg
- name: Custom Email Footer
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/custom_email_footer/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/message-check-circle.svg
- name: Inbox Vision
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/inbox_vision/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/inbox-01.svg
- name: Transactional Emails
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/transactional_message_api_campaign/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/bank-note-02.svg
- name: Identifier Field-Level Encryption
  link: /docs/user_guide/data/field_level_encryption/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/database-01.svg
- name: Gmail Promotion Tool
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/gmail_promotions_tab/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/trophy-01.svg
- name: Apple Private Relay SSO
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/apple_mail/email_private_relay_apple_sso/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/apple.svg
- name: Apple Mail Privacy Protection
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/apple_mail/mpp/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/apple.svg
- name: Email Analytics Glossary
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/analytics_glossary/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/pie-chart-01.svg
- name: Best Practices
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/best_practices/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/check-square-broken.svg
- name: Frequently Asked Questions
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/faq/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/annotation-question.svg


---

<br><br>

Commit message:

[BD-5146] Move “About TOPIC” pages into their parent page (#10504)

_docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email.md, after:

---
nav_title: Email
article_title: Email
page_order: 1.5
layout: dev_guide
guide_top_header: "Email"
guide_top_text: "With email at Braze, you can create completely customized and personalized email messages in either campaigns or Canvas that will grab your user's attention fast outside of your app or website. Customize your email messages from managing your audience to including eye-catching multimedia content. To see examples of email campaigns, check out our <a href='https://www.braze.com/customers/'>case studies</a>."
description: "This landing page is home to Braze email. Here, you can learn how to create an email campaign, how to use the drag-and-drop editor, how to manage user subscriptions, the preference center, and more."
channel:
  - email
search_rank: 2
guide_featured_title: "Popular articles"
guide_featured_list:
- name: Managing User Subscriptions
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/managing_user_subscriptions/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/users-01.svg
- name: Link Aliasing
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/templates/link_aliasing/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/link-03.svg
- name: Create an Email Campaign
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/mail-01.svg
- name: Drag-And-Drop Editor
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/brush-02.svg
- name: Templates
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/templates/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/table.svg
- name: Email Reporting
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/email_reporting/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/bar-chart-01.svg

guide_menu_title: "More articles"
guide_menu_list:
- name: Email Setup
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/email_setup/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/mail-01.svg
- name: Locales in Messages
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/using_locales/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/users-01.svg
- name: Preference Center
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/preference_center/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/list.svg
- name: CSS Inlining
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/css_inline/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/align-left.svg
- name: Custom Email Footer
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/custom_email_footer/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/message-check-circle.svg
- name: Inbox Vision
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/inbox_vision/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/inbox-01.svg
- name: Transactional Emails
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/transactional_message_api_campaign/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/bank-note-02.svg
- name: Identifier Field-Level Encryption
  link: /docs/user_guide/data/field_level_encryption/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/database-01.svg
- name: Gmail Promotion Tool
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/gmail_promotions_tab/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/trophy-01.svg
- name: Apple Private Relay SSO
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/apple_mail/email_private_relay_apple_sso/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/apple.svg
- name: Apple Mail Privacy Protection
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/apple_mail/mpp/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/apple.svg
- name: Email Analytics Glossary
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/analytics_glossary/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/pie-chart-01.svg
- name: Best Practices
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/best_practices/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/check-square-broken.svg
- name: Frequently Asked Questions
  link: /docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/faq/
  image: /assets/img/braze_icons/annotation-question.svg
---

## [![Braze Learning course]({% image_buster /assets/img/bl_icon3.png %})](https://learning.braze.com/messaging-channels-email){: style="float:right;width:120px;border:0;" class="noimgborder"} Customize your emails

You can customize your email messaging in a variety of ways, including:

- [Braze email templates]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/templates/email_template/)
- [Custom HTML templates]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/templates/html_email_template/)
- [Blocks for drag-and-drop editor]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/dnd_editor_blocks/)
- [User subscriptions]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/managing_user_subscriptions/)

## Great use cases

Here are some great use cases to get you inspired!

| Use case | Explanation |
| --- | --- |
| Re-engagement | Reach users outside of your app, including those who have not installed the app. |
| Onboarding | Onboard and encourage new users to turn on push notifications or share the app on social networks. |
| Rich messages | Allow for rich and dynamic HTML messages. |
| Multimedia content | Ease of multimedia content placement that engages users such as videos and images. |
| Newsletters | Conveniently send monthly or weekly newsletters to maintain user engagement. |
| Transactions | Notify users of recent purchases and deliver important product and shipping information with [transactional emails]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/transactional_message_api_campaign/).
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }
