_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/managing_canvases/archiving_canvases.md, before:

---
nav_title: Archiving Canvases
article_title: Archiving Canvases
page_order: 0
description: "This reference article covers how to stop or archive a Canvas after the initial launch."
page_type: reference
tool: Canvas
---

# Archiving Canvases

> This reference article explains how to archive a pre-existing Canvas and the effects of archiving a Canvas.

To stop a Canvas from sending or to remove it from your Dashboard, you can archive a Canvas. Go to the **Canvas** page, click the gear icon next to the selected Canvas, and click **Archive**.

There are also bulk actions you can use, such as archiving multiple Canvases, by checking the boxes next to the Canvases and selecting the revelant button. 

![Archive Canvas option][1]

When you archive a Canvas, the following will apply:
- No further messages from the Canvas will be sent.
- Segments associated with the archived Canvas will also be archived.

You can view all previously archived Canvases in the **Archived folder** on the **Canvas** page. 

![List of archived Canvases][2]

## Unarchiving Canvases

You can also view previously archived Canvases and choose to unarchive a Canvas. Note that when you unarchive a Canvas, the associated archived Segments will also be unarchived.

![Unarchive Canvas option][3]

[1]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/archive_canvas1.png %}
[2]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/archived_canvas.png %}
[3]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/unarchive_canvas.png %}

Commit message:

Minor edit in Archiving Canvases doc

_docs/_user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/managing_canvases/archiving_canvases.md, after:

---
nav_title: Archiving Canvases
article_title: Archiving Canvases
page_order: 0
description: "This reference article covers how to stop or archive a Canvas after the initial launch."
page_type: reference
tool: Canvas
---

# Archiving Canvases

> This reference article explains how to archive a pre-existing Canvas and the effects of archiving a Canvas.

To stop a Canvas from sending or to remove it from your Dashboard, you can archive a Canvas. Go to the **Canvas** page, click the gear icon next to the selected Canvas, and click **Archive**.

There are also bulk actions you can use, such as archiving multiple Canvases, by checking the boxes next to the Canvases and selecting the revelant button. 

![Archive Canvas option][1]

When you archive a Canvas, the following will apply:
- No further messages from the Canvas will be sent.
- Segments associated with the archived Canvas will also be archived.

You can view all previously archived Canvases in the **Archived folder** on the **Canvas** page. 

![List of archived Canvases][2]

## Unarchiving Canvases

You can also choose to unarchive a Canvas. Go to the **Archived folder** on the **Canvas** page, click the gear icon next to the selected Canvas, and click **Unarchive**. Note that when you unarchive a Canvas, the associated archived Segments will also be unarchived.

![Unarchive Canvas option][3]

[1]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/archive_canvas1.png %}
[2]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/archived_canvas.png %}
[3]: {% image_buster /assets/img_archive/unarchive_canvas.png %}
