_docs/_user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro.md, before:

---
page_order: 4
nav_title: Decisioning Studio Pro
article_title: Setting up Decisioning Studio Pro agents
description: "Learn how to set up Decisioning Studio Pro agents to make 1:1 AI decisions that maximize your business metrics."
---

# Setting up Decisioning Studio Pro agents

> Think of a Decisioning Studio agent like the brain of your Martech stack. In order to make optimal and personalized decisions at a 1:1 level to maximize a target metric, it needs customer context, a bank of possible actions to select, and the ability to orchestrate marketing communications.

AI Decisioning Services (Braze's forward-deployed engineering team) will configure the agent itself and most integration points, and guide your team on required integration and setup steps on your side.

The first step is to design your agents with assistance from our expert services. This will include mapping out all of the available data, determining an overall orchestration pattern, and setting up the agents for maximal success for your business, including configuring target metrics and appropriate constraints.

To learn more about what agents can do, [book a call](https://www.braze.com/get-started/) with Braze.

## Best practices

A few best practices for setting up Decisioning Studio agents:

1. The more information agents have about your customers, the better they will perform
2. The fewer constraints on your agents, the better. Constraints should be designed to respect business rules while freeing agent-led experimentation as much as possible.

## Setup steps

Once the agent has been designed, the following additional steps need to be taken to set up the self-learning cycle:

1. Configure customer context for the agent, including:
   - Define the audience
   - Feed customer data to the agent
2. Set up Orchestration
3. Create the Feedback loop

{% alert important %}
This guide explains the most common integration patterns. Information Security will still need to vet all connection points.
{% endalert %}

## Next steps

1. [Design your agent]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/design_your_agent/)
2. [Set Customer Context]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/set_customer_context/)
3. [Configure Orchestration]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/configure_orchestration/)
4. [Create the Feedback Loop]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/create_feedback_loop/)

Commit message:

Revise Decisioning Studio Pro setup instructions
Updated the language for clarity and added structured steps for setting up Decisioning Studio Pro agents.

_docs/_user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro.md, after:

---
page_order: 4
nav_title: Decisioning Studio Pro
article_title: Setting up Decisioning Studio Pro agents
description: "Learn how to set up Decisioning Studio Pro agents to make 1:1 AI decisions that maximize your business metrics."
---

# Setting up Decisioning Studio Pro agents

> Think of a Decisioning Studio agent like the brain of your Martech stack:  using your rich customer data, the agent orchestrates optimal and personalized decisions at a 1:1 level to maximize a target metric you choose.

To set up an AI Decisioning Agent and complete the AI Decisioning Loop, at a high level, you will:

1. Design your agent

You will make important decisions such as what metric the agent should optimize for, as well as defining the universe of possible decisions the agent could make.

2. Set customer context

You will connect rich first-party data sources that describe your customer for the Decisioning Agent to learn from.

3. Configure orchestration

You will connect Braze or a non-Braze Marketing Automation Platform that will carry turn the Agent’s decisions into action

4. Close the AI Decisioning Loop
Finally, you will close the AI Decisioning Loop by connecting data sources that tell the Agent how a customer reacts to its decisions.

Decisioning Studio Pro includes AI Decisioning Services support from Braze’s forward deployed data science team, which will help you design and configure your agent to maximize your business outcomes.

## Best practices

A few best practices for setting up Decisioning Studio agents:

1. The more information agents have about your customers, the better they will perform. 
2. The more diverse the set of actions the agent can take, the more it can personalize its strategy for each user.
3. The fewer constraints on your agents, the better. Constraints should be designed to respect business rules while freeing agent-led experimentation as much as possible. 

To learn more about what agents can do, [book a call](https://www.braze.com/get-started/) with Braze.

{% alert important %}
This guide explains the most common integration patterns. Information Security will still need to vet all connection points and Solutions Consultants will be 
{% endalert %}

## Next steps

1. [Design your agent]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/design_your_agent/)
2. [Set Customer Context]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/set_customer_context/)
3. [Configure Orchestration]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/configure_orchestration/)
4. [Create the Feedback Loop]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/decisioning_studio/decisioning_studio_pro/create_feedback_loop/)
