---
nav_title: April 4, 2023
page_order: 9
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 4/4/2023."
---

# April 4, 2023 release

## Creating catalogs in browser
You can use catalogs to reference non-user data in your Braze campaigns through Liquid. Braze now allows you to create a catalog directly in your browser instead of importing a CSV. Refer to [Creating a catalog]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/catalogs/catalog) for more for more information.

## Custom SQL in query builder
With the query builder, you can generate reports using Braze data in Snowflake. Now, you can [use custom SQL]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/query_builder/custom_sql) to unlock new insights.

{% alert important %}
The SQL editor is in early access. If you're interested in participating in the early access, reach out to your customer success manager.
{% endalert %}

## Message extras Liquid tag for Currents
Using the [`message_extras` Liquid tag]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/advanced_filters/message_extras), you can annotate your send events with dynamic data from Connected Content, custom attributes (such as language, country), and Canvas entry properties. This Liquid tag appends key-value pairs to the corresponding send event in Currents.

{% alert important %}
This Liquid tag is currently in beta for email, SMS, and push send events. Contact your Braze customer success manager if you're interested in participating in the beta.
{% endalert %}

## New Currents events: users_campaigns_abort and users_canvas_abort
Two new events were added to the Currents glossary: [Canvas abort message events]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/braze_currents/event_glossary/message_engagement_events#canvas-abort-message-events) and [campaign abort message events]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data_and_analytics/braze_currents/event_glossary/message_engagement_events#campaign-abort-message-events).

## New API endpoints: Catalogs
Use the [Update catalog item]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_items/synchronous/put_update_catalog_item/) and [Update catalog items]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/catalogs/catalog_items/asynchronous/put_update_catalog_items/) endpoints to update an item or multiple items in your catalog.

## WhatsApp
WhatsApp is a popular peer-to-peer messaging platform used across the world offering conversation-based messaging for businesses. The [WhatsApp messaging channel]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/whatsapp) offers a direct way to engage users on the WhatsApp platform through campaigns, opt-ins and opt-outs, quick replies, and more.

### WhatsApp API object
As part of Braze's WhatsApp support, the `whats_app` object allows you to modify or create WhatsApp messages via our [messaging endpoints]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/messaging). See the [`whats_app` object documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/api/objects_filters/messaging/whats_app_object) for the full spec.

## New Braze partnerships

### Merkury - Analytics
The Braze and [Merkury]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/analytics/merkury) integration allows you to leverage the `MerkuryID` to increase site visitor recognition rates for Braze customers.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.
