---
nav_title: June 27, 2023
page_order: 6
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 6/27/2023."
---

# June 27, 2023 release

## Drag-And-Drop Email Preference Center

Setting up a preference center provides a one-stop shop for your users to edit and manage their notification preferences for your email messaging. With the drag-and-drop editor, you can now create and customize a preference center to help manage which users receive certain types of communication. See [Create an email preference center with drag-and-drop]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/preference_center/dnd_preference_center/) to learn more.

## Saving drafts for Canvas

As you create and launch Canvases, you can also make edits to an active Canvas and save it as a draft, allowing you to pilot your changes prior to another launch. If you have an active Canvas that requires large scale changes, you can use this feature to create separate drafts for these edits. See [Saving drafts for Canvas]({{site.baseurl}}/save_as_draft) to learn more.

## Winning Path with one-time entry

When using [Winning Paths]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/experiment_step/winning_path/#one-time-entry) in a Canvas where users are allowed to enter only once, a Delay Group is now automatically included. This means you no longer need to perform a workaround for one-time entry Canvases to use Winning Paths in your Experiment Paths.

## Refreshing Content Card rate limits

For customers onboarded after June 14, 2023, the default rate limit for manually calling `requestContentCardsRefresh()` is 3 calls per 10 minutes per device to prevent performance degradation and errors. For more information on refreshing Content Cards, see the respective documentation for [iOS]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/swift/content_cards/integration#refreshing-content-cards), [Android]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/content_cards/customizing_feed/#refreshing-the-feed), and [Web]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/content_cards/customizing_cards/feed/).

## Audience sync to Facebook

If you use [Audience Sync to Facebook]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/canvas_audience_sync/facebook_audience_sync/), please be aware that starting in July 2023, Meta is rolling out Meta work accounts to a small set of businesses who are interested in adopting this new account type. If you have a Business Account integrated with Braze, ensure you disconnect and reconnect to the [Facebook partner page]({{site.baseurl}}/partners/canvas_steps/facebook_audience_sync#step-1-connect-to-facebook) with your Business Account in order to preserve this implementation and not disrupt any active Canvases.

## Cloud Data Ingestion for Databricks

Braze Cloud Data Ingestion for Databricks allows customers to directly sync user data (attributes, events, purchases) as well as user deletes from Databricks to Braze. Once synced to Braze, this data can be used just like any other data in the Braze platform. This feature is an extension of our [Cloud Data Ingestion]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/data/cloud_ingestion/integrations/) product and is currently in early access.

## Privacy Portal

The new [Braze Privacy Portal]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/privacy_portal) provides useful information about how Braze can help you be good custodians of your customers’ data and, importantly, enable you to take measures to comply with data protection rules relevant to your business. We have brought together information and links to documentation that may assist you in your use of the Braze Services in compliance with applicable data protection laws and regulations.

## SDK updates

The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 26.0.0–26.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2610)
	- {% raw %}Added the ability to configure link target behavior for HTML In-App Messages through `BrazeConfig.setIsHtmlInAppMessageHtmlLinkTargetEnabled()` or via adding `<bool name="com_braze_html_in_app_message_enable_html_link_target">true</bool>` to your `braze.xml`. Defaults to enabled.{% endraw %}
		- {% raw %}When enabled, a link in an in-app message that has the link target set (for example, `<a HREF="https://www.braze.com" target="_blank">Please Read</a>`) will open the link in a browser, but will not close the in-app message.{% endraw %}
- [Web SDK 4.7.2–4.8.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#480)
- [Swift SDK 6.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#630)
- [Unity SDK 4.1.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#411)
- [React Native SDK 5.1.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#510)
