---
nav_title: July 25, 2023
page_order: 5
noindex: true
page_type: update
description: "This article contains release notes for 07/25/23."
 
---
# July 25, 2023 release

## Canvas approval 
The new Canvas approval workflow setting adds a review process prior to launching a new Canvas. Note that this feature is turned off by default, giving you control over its implementation. Explore more details about activating this workflow in [Canvas approvals and permissions]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/messaging_fundamentals/approvals/).
 
## Feature flags in Canvas
Feature flags allow you to experiment and confirm your hypotheses around new features by turning them off and on for different sections of your user base. The new feature flag component in Canvas allows you to segment your audience in a Canvas based on whether a feature flag is on or off for a user. Moreover, Experiment Paths allow you optimize these conversions by testing different messages or paths against each other and determining which is most effective. See the [feature flag overview]({{site.baseurl}}/developer_guide/feature_flags/) for information about feature flags generally, or learn more about [using feature flags in Canvas]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/canvas/canvas_components/feature_flags/).

## Managing Segments article
The new [Managing Segments]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/engagement_tools/segments/managing_segments/) article covers the actions you can take to configure your segments, such as filtering a list of segments, creating segments, and editing segments.
 
## Row component Content Block
You can now save a row component as a Content Block that can then be used in all email campaigns and email messages in a Canvas. For more information on drag-and-drop Content Blocks, refer to [Content Blocks]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/drag_and_drop/dnd_content_blocks/).

## BrazeAI<sup>TM</sup>
BrazeAI<sup>TM</sup> powers a collection of accessible, easy-to-use tools that lower the barriers to entry for creativity, personalization and optimization for your engagement strategy. Learn more about our BrazeAI<sup>TM</sup> features and capabilities in our [documentation]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/brazeai/).

## Updating a user profile by phone number
Using the [`/users/track`]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_track) endpoint, you can update a user profile using their phone number. 

{% alert important %}
This feature is currently in early access. Contact your Braze account manager if you're interested in participating in the early access.
{% endalert %}

## Whitespace after email preheader 
The new **Add whitespace after preheader** checkbox hides the text or HTML of the email body in the email preheader. Learn more about adding email headers in [Creating an email]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/#step-3-compose-your-email).

## SDK updates
 
The following SDK updates have been released. Breaking updates are listed below; all other updates can be found by checking the corresponding SDK changelogs.

- [Android SDK 26.2.0-26.3.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-android-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2620) 
- [Swift SDK 6.3.1](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-swift-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#631)
- [Web SDK 4.8.1–4.8.3](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-web-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#481)
- [Flutter SDK 6.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-flutter-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#600)
    - Updates the native Android bridge from Braze Android SDK 25.0.0 to 26.1.0.
- [React Native SDK 5.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-react-native-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#520)
- [Roku SDK 1.0.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-roku-sdk/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#100)
- [Unity 4.2.0](https://github.com/braze-inc/braze-unity-sdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#420)
    - Updated the Android plugin to use Braze Android SDK 26.2.0.